The Golden Bauhinia Square in south China's Hong Kong File photo: XinhuaThe State Council, China’s cabinet, approved the list of key officials proposed by the six-term Chief Executive for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government. The veteran official Eric Chan Kwok-ki will serve as the Chief Secretary while Paul Chan Mo-po will remain as the Financial Secretary. Among 26 officials appointed by the central government, Erick Tsang Kwok-wai will remain as Secretary for Constitutional and Mainland Affairs and Chris Tang Ping-keung will continue serving as Secretary for Security. Senior Counsel Paul Lam Ting-kwok, former Bar Association chairman, will replace Teresa Cheng Yeuk-wah to be the new Secretary for Justice. All the principal officials will take the oath of the office on July 1, which also marks the 25th anniversary of the HKSAR’s return to the motherland. John Lee Ka-chiu thanked the central government’s approval of these officials he submitted on Friday, and also fully appreciated the trust and support that the central government granted to him and his governing team. Three officials have the background of working in the Discipline Services including Eric Chan who used to work in the immigration office and who is also now the secretary-general of the Committee for Safeguarding National Security in HKSAR. Erick Tsang and Chris Tang also have a career background in Discipline Services. Under the new governing structure, three new positions, namely deputy positions for the chief secretary for administration, financial secretary and secretary for justice, will be created. Horace Cheung Kwok-kwan, the current vice-chairman of the city’s largest pro-establishment group the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress, will serve as the deputy Secretary for Justice. Cheung is also a Legislative Council member and a member of the Executive Council meeting. Multiple veteran officials for administration and those with professional background join the governing team. Other professionals outside the government will also join the team. For example, Algernon Yau Ying-wah, chief executive of the fledgling Greater Bay Airlines, will serve as commerce and economic development bureau chief. Chung-Mau Lo, Hospital Chief Executive at the University of Hong Kong-Shenzhen Hospital, will serve as the head of the Medical and Health Bureau. The new governing team maintains the firm political stance of being patriot, safeguarding the “one country, two systems” principle unswervingly and safeguarding the sovereignty, security and interests of the development, the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council said in a statement on Sunday. Those officials respect and safeguard the country’s fundamental political system and safeguard the constitutional order defined by the Constitution and the Basic Law. They demonstrated the firm stance and courage in a number of political struggles, including the social turmoil triggered by the anti-extradition law movement in 2019, the implementation of the national security law for Hong Kong and the electoral reform. The new team is also diversified by including the representatives from different social spheres, and some have the vast experience working in the local governance, while others have a professional background as lawyers, medical experts, scientists and workers in the education, the central government’s office said. They are also expected to fully implement the “one country, two systems” principle correctly and make more progress in fixing the issues of concern to Hong Kong residents such as housing woes, the office said, noting that the new team is also hoped to advance the city’s integration into the country’s overall development plan in the future. Global Times