Celebratory posters are seen at a street in Hong Kong, south China, June 19, 2022. This year marks the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland.(Photo: Xinhua)Chinese President Xi Jinping will attend a meeting marking the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland and will also attend the inaugural ceremony of the sixth-term government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the Xinhua News Agency reported on Saturday. In 2017, the Chinese President visited the HKSAR for three days for its 20th anniversary of return to the motherland and also attended the inaugural ceremony of the fifth-term government of the HKSAR. During his visit in 2017, Xi pledged to uphold and implement the principle of "one country, two systems," saying it's a great initiative pursued by China. And any attempt to endanger China's sovereignty and security, challenge the power of the central government and the authority of the Basic Law of the HKSAR or use Hong Kong to carry out infiltration and sabotage activities against the mainland is an act that crosses the red line, and is absolutely impermissible, Xi said in the speech delivered at a meeting celebrating the 20th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland on July 1, 2017. Carrie Lam, incumbent Chief Executive of the HKSAR, extended her welcome and deepest gratitude on Saturday for President Xi's attendance. Over the past five years, with President Xi's warm regards and the central authorities' full support, the HKSAR has been steadfastly implementing the "one country, two systems" principle, Lam noted. Xi's attendance at a meeting celebrating the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland and the inaugural ceremony of the sixth-term government of the HKSAR fully shows the importance that the central authorities attach to and their support for Hong Kong, she said.The incoming Chief Executive of the HKSAR government John Lee said Xi's attendance of the meeting and the inaugural ceremony is at the moment of Hong Kong's transition from chaos to stability and prosperity, which has great significance, and Lee said he felt excited about it. Since the city's return to the motherland, the successful practice of the "one country, two systems" provides the best institutional guarantee for Hong Kong's long-term prosperity, Lee said.The details of the upcoming schedule have not been revealed. Experts in both Chinese mainland and Hong Kong believe that Xi's attendance, at the critical historical junction as 2022 marks the 25th anniversary of the implementation of "one country, two systems," will convey the great significance and point the further direction of Hong Kong's practice of democracy. Hong Kong has witnessed a lot of changes and challenges over the past five years. The social turmoil in 2019 exposed the severe loopholes in local governance and in safeguarding the national security in Hong Kong but the implementation of the national security law for Hong Kong and the electoral system reform with the principle of "only patriots governing Hong Kong" brought back the social order and the practice of the "one country, two systems" to the right track. Xi will point out a clear direction for development of Hong Kong's democracy during the upcoming event, Lau Siu-kai, the vice-president of the Chinese Association of Hong Kong and Macao Studies, told the Global Times. By upholding the new electoral system for a long time, it will help fully implement the principle of "only patriots governing Hong Kong" that will become a firm foundation of Hong Kong's political system and help fix those deeply-seated problems in social livelihoods, economy and education, Lau said, noting that Xi's attendance and messages delivered during the event will convey a great significance for Hong Kong's future development. Officials and representatives from different social spheres are following the quarantine rules ahead of the ceremonies. The Global Times learned from some lawmakers who are invited to attend the ceremonies that they need to take the daily nucleic acid tests until the end of the month and follow the close loop management starting from Thursday including not taking public transport and public gatherings. Some will also stay at the designated hotel for the quarantine a day before the ceremonies as part of the anti-epidemic measures.