Chinese State Councilor and Defense Minister General Wei Fenghe makes a speech on China’s vision for regional order at the Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore on June 12, 2022. The Chinese armed forces will fight to the very end if anyone dares to split Taiwan out of China, said State Councilor and Defense Minister General Wei Fenghe in a speech delivered at the Shangri-La Dialogue on Sunday.Taiwan is part of China, the Taiwan question belongs to China’s internal affairs, and national reunification will definitely become a reality, Wei said.Wei said that reunification is a great cause of the Chinese nation, and it is a historical trend that no one and no force can stop. “Peaceful reunification is the greatest wish of the Chinese people, and we have the utmost sincerity and are willing to make greatest efforts to achieve that. We are still making every effort with the greatest sincerities to deliver peaceful reunification now. The Taiwan question arose out of the weakness and chaos of the Chinese nation and is a legacy of China’s civil war, but it will surely be resolved as the Chinese nation achieves its rejuvenation,” Wei said.Those who pursue “Taiwan independence” in an attempt to split China will definitely come to no good end, and as the Democratic Progress Party authority attempted to change the status quo that both the mainland and Taiwan belongs to China, refused to recognize the 1992 Consensus, pursued incremental “independence” and acted as a pawn of anti-China foreign groups, it will only be used and abandoned by its masters, Wei said.The US fought a civil war for its unity, and though China does not want such a civil war, it will resolutely crush any attempt that pursues “Taiwan independence,” Wei said.“Let me make this clear: if anyone dares to split Taiwan out of China, we will not hesitate to fight. We will fight at all costs. We will fight to the very end. This is the only choice for China,” Wei said.Foreign interference is also doomed to failure, Wei warned.Some country has violated its promise on the one-China principle, supporting Taiwan separatist forces’ moves that go against the tide of history, playing the Taiwan card against China, often citing the so-called Taiwan Relations Act which is a domestic law to interfere in the internal affairs of another country, Wei said. “China firmly opposes to such acts.”“I hereby want to make it clear to those seeking ‘Taiwan independence’ and those behind them. The pursuit of ‘Taiwan independence’ is a dead end, a delusion! Soliciting foreign support will not work, and they should never think about it!” Wei said.The wheels of history roll on and no one can stop China’s path toward reunification. No one should ever underestimate the strong determination, firm will and powerful capability of the Chinese armed forces to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity, Wei said.Global Times