The slogan "Following the CPC Forever" is seen at the street of Guangzhou, South China's Guangdong Province in June 2021. Photo: VCGFrom leading nearly 800 million people out of poverty to successfully organizing the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics amid the epidemic, the Communist Party of China (CPC) has demonstrated its strong governance capability in mobilizing resources in a short period of time to achieve its goals. In 2021, China declared a complete victory in eradicating absolute poverty, elevating more than 770 million people from poverty since late 1970s - the figure accounted for more than 70 percent of the global total over the same period, according to the World Bank statistics.In this fight, the CPC has mobilized energies from the Party and society for this cause. Since 2013, more than 3 million first Party secretaries and resident working team members have been dispatched to carry out targeted poverty reduction. More than 1,800 CPC members and officials have lost their lives in the course of poverty reduction, according to Xinhua.   Now China has effectively implemented the dynamic Zero-COVID approach to protect people's lives when the novel coronavirus disease has caused millions of death abroad and left many to suffer with the symptoms of long COVID. Yang Xuedong, a professor of political science at Tsinghua University, told the Global Times that all these achievements showed the CPC's capability to concentrate resources to accomplish major tasks. "With the integration of governance resources from all aspects and firm leadership by the Party and the government, the implementation of many important projects can be completed and important issues can be settled."According to Yang, China's political system has a strong mass base. The people believe in the Party and rely on it. Additionally, the CPC is a highly organized political body. It has strong cohesion when making major decisions, and can mobilize useful forces from all sectors of society when needed. Moreover, the CPC has self-correction abilities. "Although the Party has made some mistakes in the course of history which is inevitable, it learns from its mistakes and makes informed choices and enhanced decisions in the face of different environments and realities. This is the most important feature of the CPC," Yang said. He stressed the necessity of having a powerful organization especially in the present world today when the global environment is experiencing profound changes. As for the problems that individuals cannot solve independently, it's important to have collective wisdom to solve them.In June 2021, China published a white paper titled " China's Political Party System: Cooperation and Consultation." The white paper pointed out that in this system, the CPC exercises state power and the eight other parties participate fully in the administration of state affairs under the leadership of the CPC. They carry out cooperation based on the principles of long-term coexistence, mutual oversight, sincerity, and the sharing of rough times and good.Yang noted that an important characteristic of the CPC is its ability to mobilize, integrate, and coordinate resources from all over the country to deal with problems that are hard to addressed for local governments. The Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics were hosted amid the epidemic. While facing mounting external pressure at that time, including the threat of a "diplomatic boycott" by some countries and the smearing of the closed loop management system, China still successfully hosted a marvelous Winter Olympic Games. This shows that as long as the CPC and the country identify one goal, its execution is bound to be excellent.