A medical worker prepares to put a patient on a drip in an ambulance from the medical emergency center of Minhang District of Shanghai in Shanghai, east China, April 23, 2022.Photo:XinhuaFive people have been punished in Zhengzhou, Central China's Henan Province, after an ambulance dispatcher's negligence caused the death of a 20-year-old college student, read a notice issued by local authorities on Monday night. The father of the deceased posted the incident on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo. The account drew backlash from netizens, who urged the relevant departments to clarify the facts. The victim's father, surnamed Peng, said that his daughter, a college student at Henan University, suddenly felt ill on May 17, and called the emergency number 120 for help, but the ambulance did not come in time because the address was not given in detail. It was not until the girl's roommates found her faint and dialed 120 again that the ambulance arrived, two hours after the first call. On May 30, the college student died after 14 days in a coma due to brain hemorrhage, the father said.The Zhengzhou disciplinary departments reported the investigation results on Monday: The first call by the student surnamed Peng was received by the ambulance dispatcher Zhang Zhenying. In the following 47 minutes, Zhang redialed Peng's number 11 times but no one answered, tried to add Peng on WeChat but did not get approved. Almost two hours later, Peng's roommate called again saying that she had trouble in breathing, and informed them of the exact address. Emergency rescue personnel then arrived and entered the dorm to deliver first aid and declared that Peng was critically ill. Later she was admitted to the ICU and diagnosed with cerebral hemorrhaging. She died after being taken off life support on May 30.Authorities deemed the case reflected a series of problems in the Zhengzhou emergency rescue center's response. Major ones include misjudgment of acute patient conditions, insufficient ability to handle complex issues and ineffective implementation of the reporting system for key matters. Zhang was directly responsible for the case, and has been removed from his post for negligence and incompetence. Four others  were given warnings.The case came a few days after another delayed emergency rescue in Beijing, which led to the death of a man suffering from a heart attack. One official was dismissed and three others were punished. Global Times