Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin Photo: fmprc.gov.cnWhile the Five Eyes Alliance is interfering and infiltrating into China, they are distorting the facts and blaming China of "infiltration" instead, which reveals their deep-rooted Cold War mentality and ideological bias, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said on the Five Eyes Alliance's action to tarnish China's image in the world. When asked about the Global Times' exclusive report on the Five Eyes Alliance which is fabricating evidence that intends to show China is "infiltrating politically into Western countries," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said at a press conference on Tuesday that China demands an explanation from relevant countries. In terms of political infiltration, Western countries such as the US have considerable expertise in practicing it, Wang noted. In the name of "freedom and democracy," the US instigated "color revolutions" in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, the Middle East, Latin America and other places to create regional turbulence to achieve its own geopolitical goals, Wang said. In the American writer William Blum's book, America's Deadliest Export: Democracy - The Truth about US Foreign Policy and Everything Else, Blum noted that the US had attempted to overthrow more than 50 foreign administrations and had interfered in elections in at least 30 countries. Politicians in the US, the UK, and other countries are in collusion with secessionists in China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. Acting as a pawn and white glove of the US government, the National Endowment for Democracy has repeatedly interfered in Hong Kong's affairs, attempting to turn the city into a bridgehead for subversion and infiltration, Wang added. The fact that the US and the UK are interfering and infiltrating into China, while distorting facts and blaming China instead, reveals their deep-rooted Cold War mentality and ideological bias, Wang said. In the name of "anti-infiltration," relevant countries have carried out political persecution against persons engaged in normal exchanges and cooperation with China, to create a chilling effect and to bring McCarthyism back to life, which has not only seriously damaged the bilateral relations between these countries and China, but also encouraged racial discrimination and hateful words and deeds in these countries, Wang noted. Wang asked what it meant to the Five Eyes Alliance that Taiwan authorities have reportedly spent $140,000 in buying phone calls with the US president and opportunities for making contact with top American officials. China urged relevant countries to stop political infiltration, stop spreading false information about China, and stop containing and suppressing China with unscrupulous tactics, Wang said. Global Times