Photo taken on June 28, 2022 shows an installation marking the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland in Hong Kong, south China. July 1 this year marks the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland.Photo:XinhuaChinese President Xi Jinping arrived at the West Kowloon Station in Hong Kong by train on Thursday afternoon, unveiling his visit to the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the city’s return to the motherland. This is the first visit of the Chinese President to the HKSAR since 2017. This is also Xi’s first publicly announced visit outside the Chinese mainland since the COVID-19 epidemic in early 2020. This visit will be of great significance as observers expect that his speech will point out the direction of the city’s future development, especially after the implementation of the national security law for Hong Kong and electoral system reform helped restore the city’s stability.  Carrie Lam, the outgoing chief executive of the HKSAR, and Luo Huining, director of the central government’s liaison office in Hong Kong, welcomed Xi and his wife Peng Liyuan on the station platform. They were surrounded by local residents and students waving the Chinese national flags, flowers and banners with the words “warmly welcome President Xi to attend the celebration for the 25th anniversary of the city’s return to the motherland and the inaugural ceremony of the sixth-term government of the HKSAR.”Inside the station, the lion dance was displayed and the atmosphere of excitement was palpable. Xi extended congratulations and best wishes to Hong Kong compatriots, as he gave a short speech inside the station. He said he has all along been concerned about Hong Kong and his heart is always with Hong Kong compatriots. "It has been five years since my last visit to Hong Kong," Xi said upon arrival at the West Kowloon high-speed rail station.Over the past five years, I have been all along concerned about and caring for Hong Kong, and my heart is always with Hong Kong compatriots, Xi said.