Photo: CCTVThe first China-Russia highway bridge, which stretches from Heihe, a border city in Northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, to the Russian city of Blagoveshchensk spanning the Heilongjiang River, opened to traffic on Friday, Chinese state broadcaster CCTV reported. It will open a new international highway that will boost the connectivity between local cities in China and Russia. According to the report, the Heihe highway port is also put into service the same day, which combined with the opening of Heilongjiang bridge, marks the opening of a new international transportation channel between Northeast China and Russian Far East. 

Photo: CCTVAlong with the opening of road port and the Heihe-Blagoveshchensk highway bridge, China and Russia will also set up bridgehead cross-border economic cooperation zone to facilitate comprehensive cooperation and further opening-up between China and Russia, meet soaring demand in economic and trade, and promote the development of China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination, the CCTV report said. Construction of the 1,284-meter-long Heilongjiang bridge began at the end of 2016 and the two sides of the span were joined on May 31, 2019. The overall highway project, with an investment of 2.47 billion yuan ($369 million), has a length of 19.9 kilometers, among which 6.5 kilometers are within Chinese border and 13.4 kilometers are in Russia. It is one of flagship projects under the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative. The maximum load capacity of the bridge reached 318 tons during its final acceptance test, the Xinhua News Agency reported.Heihe port is China's important border trading port with Russia, and it is the border waterway port with the shortest shipment distance and largest capacity between China and Russia. But due to weather conditions, the port is only accessible for 240 days a year, and transportation is carried out by hovercraft, floating bridge and ice roads in winter. But with the opening of the highway port, the port will be able to provide custom clearance 365 days a year.Last year, China and Russia pledged to jointly promote the opening of the Heihe-Blagoveshchensk highway bridge as soon as possible in a joint communique following the 25th regular meeting between the Chinese and Russian premiers. In April, Russia also completed construction of its section of the first China-Russia railway bridge, Tongjiang-Nizhneleninskoye railway bridge, which will be opened for traffic soon, marking a major progress in rail transport between the two countries, according to Russian news agency TASS.Global Times