A worker works at a packaging material industrial park at Yopurga County in Kashgar, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Nov. 8, 2021. The industrial park, mainly engaged in the production and sales of packaging materials such as woven bags, has attracted a total of 19 enterprises, providing 1,500 jobs for local residents.Photo: XinhuaThe European Parliament, on the basis of lies and falsehoods mongered by anti-China forces in the US and some other Western countries, adopted a negative resolution related to China's Xinjiang region, which viciously attacks the human rights situation in the region, and the move is nothing but absurdity and insanity, a huge disgrace in European history, spokesperson of the Xinjiang regional government said in a release. On June 9, the European Parliament passed a resolution on "the human rights situation in Xinjiang," criticizing the human rights situation in China's Xinjiang region and alleging that China's relevant measures amount to crimes against humanity and represent a serious risk of "genocide."Xu Guixiang, the spokesperson of the Xinjiang regional government said that the resolution of the European Parliament wantonly meddles with Xinjiang-related issues, grossly interferes in China's internal affairs, and seriously hurts the feelings of people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang. "We must say the European Parliament has lost its conscience," Xu said, noting that the European Parliament has not taken into account the real situation of respecting and protecting human rights in Xinjiang at all, but instead stands on the position of "containing China with Xinjiang-related issues" and spares no effort in slinging mud at Xinjiang. The parliament's resolution is based on the one-sided story woven by the notorious "Uyghur Tribunal", believes in the "evidence" provided by shameless anti-China elements, and acts as an accomplice of ill-intended anti-China forces in the US and some other Western countries, said Xu."It has completely departed from the fundamental spirit of the rule of law, abandoned the basic norms of international relations, and lost the conscience of humanity. This move is sheer mistake that goes against the trend of history," said the spokesperson. The European Parliament has turned a blind eye to the thousands of violent and terrorist incidents plotted and committed in Xinjiang for some time by separatist, terrorist and extremist forces in and outside China and the severe consequences of deaths of large numbers of innocent people and immeasurable damage to property. It instead chooses to embolden and endorse terrorists, which is blatant gangster's logic. Xinjiang has held high the banner of socialist rule of law, taken resolute measures in eradicating terrorist and extremist threats, and effectively protected the basic human rights of people of all ethnic groups including life and safety, said Xu.  "The perverse act by the European Parliament will certainly shock the rest of the international community," he noted. Since the end of 2018, more than 2,100 people in 161 delegations from over 100 countries and regions, including officials from the United Nations, have come to visit Xinjiang, and they have commended Xinjiang's achievements in fighting terrorism and extremism and protecting human rights. Xu pointed out that some EU member states are seeing protracted refugee issues, repeated humanitarian crises, oppression against ethnic minorities and frequent occurrence of anti-Semitic, anti-Muslim and anti-black incidents. Instead of reflecting on themselves and cleaning up their own mess in human rights, they choose to follow the US in the "export of democracy", which has resulted in constant wars and human sufferings as well as serious trampling on human rights in many countries and regions. Some EU countries have committed heinous human rights crimes nothing short of true "genocide," said Xu.The spokesperson said that the door to Xinjiang has remained wide open. For the past few years, China has, with utmost sincerity, extended multiple invitations to EU officials and diplomats of EU member states stationed in China to visit Xinjiang. However, the EU side has been postponing the visit, raising unreasonable demands, attempting to carry out "investigation" under the presumption of guilt, and even asking to see criminals sentenced for engagement in separatist activities. "This is apparently a provocation that neglects Chinese laws and interferes in China's judicial sovereignty. We are undoubtedly against such act. We make it clear to the European Parliament to refrain from its political manipulation by using Xinjiang-related issues. Deceiving yourself will only make yourself a laughing stock. The development and progress of Xinjiang will not be held back by any force," said Xu.