Shanghai Disney Resort. Photo: XinhuaShanghai's parks and resorts are gradually opening again after the city lifted a two-month lockdown starting from Wednesday. Some parks even offered a certain number of free tickets to attract tourists, but Shanghai Disney Resort's reopening time remains tentative.The Haichang Ocean Park, a famous tourism site in Shanghai, announced on Wednesday that it will allow 5,000 free visits per day from Friday to June 10. The park is also allowing free entry for all people holding medical certificates before the end of 2022. Unlike Haichang, many local parks and tourism sites chose to reopen services from Thursday. The Shanghai Botanical Garden announced it would reopen on 12:00 pm on Thursday, while the Shanghai Zoo also chose to open to the public at the same time. The Oriental Pearl Tower, a landmark building in Shanghai, announced it would open on Wednesday. It also allows free tickets for children in June. However, Shanghai Disney Resort, one of the tourist sites in Shanghai that draw the most public attention, has not announced yet when it's going to open again. A customer service representative told the Global Times on Wednesday that the resort has not decided on the definite time to resume operation. Shanghai Disney had suspended its operation since March 21 as a result of pandemic prevention measures. The resort issued a post on China's Weibo on Tuesday showing a Zootopia theme computer wallpaper, with many netizens asking when the resort will reopen in the comment area, reflecting the public's eagerness to have fun in the resort again.The tourism sites' business reopening, as well as citizens' eagerness to visit landmark sites is an epitome of the city's readiness to get in the zone after it has been stuck in a nearly standstill state for eight weeks. On Wednesday, all of the city's economic activities returned to normal except for certain regions still reporting new cases in the past 14 days.The Universal Studios theme park in Beijing has not opened yet. Global Times