The photo taken on March 7, 2022 shows Jackie Chan at the second plenary meeting of the fifth session of the 13th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC). Photo: VCGBy calling for funding for the construction of more publicly-funded cinemas in the Chinese countryside, Jackie Chan's proposal as political advisor during China's two sessions has stirred up support in rural areas where cultural entertainment is lagging behind cities.On March 6, the actor, who is also a member of the ongoing annual meeting of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) National Committee, told media that public funding and charity donations should be gathered to build cinemas in rural areas and allow more people to watch movies that are "educational and reflect the contemporary spirit of Chinese society."Talking about the reasons behind the proposal, Chan added that "audiences in rural areas are harder to reach for new movies than in the cities for lack of cinemas closer to home."Although there are voices saying that it is unnecessary to allocate public funds in this kind of initiatives as currently there is enough internet coverage for users to watch films and TV dramas through online video platforms, the proposal has drawn support from many moviegoers. "Basic construction, including public lighting, squares, and highways, is now completed in most of the rural areas in China. But now, I think, we need more places for culture and art," a resident surnamed Zhong, from East China's Jiangxi Province, told the Global Times. As infrastructure has been greatly improved, the spiritual needs of Chinese in rural areas are getting higher and higher. Statistic shows that, as of 2019, the number of big screens nationwide reached 80,000, of which 24,441 are county-level cinemas, accounting for 36 percent, which is a great improvement for small cities in China. However, in most remote villages there are no cinemas, which makes it an urgent issue for over 509 million  residents of rural areas.On the one hand, the construction of publicly-funded theaters can satisfy cultural needs of rural residents, and on the other hand, it will not be a burden for the low-income population, analysts said.Although there are now similar projects in many rural areas where movies are played for children and the elderly, the stranded financial situation has limited the "cinemas" to a small screen and a shabby room with chairs.In a village in East China's Shandong Province, a public cinema was built inside an abandoned warehouse. Every time a new movie is released over half of the residents of Yatou village come to watch."I know it is more convenient to stay at home and enjoy the movie online. But more villagers like to come together. It feels warm and more interesting and that is why we need cinemas," Wang Junhua, person in charge of the local cinema told media.Now, with this proposal, more rural cinema projects could get financial support, better equipment and updated movies, analysts said.