Residents line up for free nucleic acid testing at the special Information Port in Shenzhen’s Nanshan district, South China’s Guangdong Province. Shenzhen reported 66 local infections on March 13, raising the tally of cases to 432. Photo: ICAuthorities in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province, announced on Sunday that the target of dynamic zero-COVID in the community was achieved after three rounds of citywide nucleic acid testing since March 14. The city's authorities released a statement announcing that the epidemic situation in Shenzhen is generally under control despite great challenges. Differentiated anti-epidemic measures will still be implemented between March 21 and 27, according to the situation in different regions, to achieve the maximum effect at a minimum cost, the local authorities said. Production and daily life in the city will resume in an orderly manner.Public transportation and the subway system will resume operations and the city's production and supply chains will be ensured. The areas in lockdown and under control and prevention will continue to strictly implement public health measures. Management of communities and urban villages will be tightened with prevention and control measures, like temperature and health code checks, strictly implemented. A negative nucleic acid test within 48 hours is required for people to enter or exit these areas. Daycare centers for students and children and offline training institutions will continue to be closed and restaurants will operate with service capacity restricted to 50 percent. People who want to access public venues and use public transportation must have a negative nucleic acid test within 48 hours. Large-scale gatherings and forums are suspended and residents are advised to stay at home and keep social distance. The city's authorities made calls to maintain normal production and business activities by strictly implementing epidemic prevention and control measures. Differentiated epidemic prevention measures will be taken to ensure the safety and stability of production and supply chains.