People walk on the street in Madrid, Spain, March 15, 2022. Storm Celia blew sand from the Sahara desert over Madrid on Tuesday. (Photo by Gustavo Valiente/Xinhua)Thousands of demonstrators hit the streets across Spain on Saturday in protest at the soaring cost of food, light and fuel, which have been exacerbated by Russia-Ukraine conflict. The rallies, which took place in Spain's main cities, were called by the far-right Vox party which sought to tap into growing social discontent over the spiraling cost of living that has left many families struggling to pay their bills.Outside City Hall in Madrid, a crowd of several thousand people gathered, waving hundreds of Spanish flags and chanting angry slogans calling for the resignation of Socialist Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez."Sanchez, you're rubbish, bring down our bills!" they shouted, between patriotic cries of "Long live Spain!" at a rally demanding government action to lower prices."We have the worst possible government. It's not even a government, it's a misery factory... which plunders and extorts workers through abusive taxes," Vox leader Santiago Abascal told the rally to rousing cheers. "We will not leave the streets until this illegitimate government is expelled."This government "is taking everything from us," said Anabel, a 56-year-old demonstrator who didn't give her surname.  "They hike the light and gas prices and say it's because of [Russian President Vladimir] Putin, but that's a lie. It was like this before," she told AFP. "Light prices really affect [my family] because some of us work from home, and we can hardly put the heating on because the price of gas has almost doubled over the past six months." Many said government should be lowering taxes to help those struggling. "A country that raises prices in this way and doesn't help its citizens by partially lowering taxes, is abandoning its people," said Francisco, 53, who is unemployed and didn't give his family name. "We have to force the government to act - or remove them, for Spain's sake."Spain's main right-wing opposition Popular Party (PP) has also demanded the government immediately lower taxes. "Taxes must be lowered at once! We can't live with prices that are over 7 percent and growing," said incoming PP leader Alberto Nunez Feijoo on Saturday, referring to Spain's annual inflation, which jumped to 7.6 percent in February, its highest level in 35 years. In 2021, energy prices soared by 72 percent in Spain, one of the highest increases within the European Union, and costs have surged even higher since the start of the Ukraine crisis that comes hot on the heels of the pandemic.On March 14, Spanish lorry drivers declared an open-ended strike over fuel prices which soon mushroomed into multiple roadblocks and protests, triggering supply chain problems. Rising prices have also prompted the UGT and the CCOO, Spain's two biggest unions, to call a national strike on Wednesday. AFP