Poster of the film Oh! My Gran Photo: WeiboAs more South Korean entertainment products, including the film Oh! My Gran and the TV series Prison Playbook, have been allowed to be released in Chinese cinemas and on regular video platforms, Chinese experts see this as a signal of warming cultural exchanges between China and South Korea. However, there are also destabilizing factors like the new South Korean president, Yoon Suk-yeol, who advocated for the deployment of the THAAD defense system during the elections."Yoon's political decisions might directly influence the current optimistic trend of cultural exchanges between two countries ," Lü Chao, an expert on the Korean Peninsula at the Liaoning Academy of Social Sciences, told the Global Times on Wednesday. "So, he should be really careful about the next plan," Lü added.This view was advocated by other Chinese experts including Shi Wenxue, a cultural critic based in Beijing, and is similar with what South Korean media said. To mark the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries, a China-Korea Cultural Exchange Year was jointly launched by both parties, from 2021 to 2022, during which five South Korean TV series and movies will be released in China after years of absence. Among them the Korean hit, Something in the Rain, was the first to pass China's National Radio and Television Administration review process since 2017. The move was seen by some South Korean media as "a U-turn appearing between the cultural exchanges during the past two Exchange Years." The country's main daily business publication, the Maeil Business Newspaper, said that the exportation of South Korea's cultural products to China "is expected to be further loosened in the following years."Yet speculation also arouse among South Korean media that the newly elected president Yoon Suk-yeol and his advocacy of THAAD deployment may greatly affect this trend and could bring a "devastating effect over communications in culture and travel businesses."Experts told the Global Times that the South Korean government should be aware that people's affections between any countries in the world would be affected by the political decisions made by the government, and Yoon should be really "careful about his decisions.""Policies can greatly affect the cultural communication among the peoples of two countries. Ever since China and South Korea started diplomatic relations in 1992, the fast development has been reflected in culture, like K-pop music's influence in China. But with Seoul's decision of deploying an advanced missile defense system, cultural communication between the two has gone lower than ever," Lü said."South Korea's entertainment is the leading industry in the country which has captured quite an influence all over the world. As a neighboring country, we hope that a better communication can be achieved as often as possible. But it also depends on the policy that future South Korean president and its government would take toward China," Lü added.Chinese experts also emphasized that the communication and cooperation between the peoples of the two countries have been promoted and supported. Shi noted that South Korean workers in the film industry have always had opportunities to work with Chinese filmmakers, like in Zhang Yimou's 2021 film Cliff Walkers where the instructor of action scenes is from South Korea, for example.