Photo: Screenshot of Chinanews.comClick here to stay tuned with our live updates on Ukraine tensions. On Wednesday, the Chinese embassy in Ukraine evacuated another batch of Chinese nationals from the country, some with family members from other nationalities. The total of persons evacuated through the embassy has exceeded 2,700. Staff from the Chinese embassy in Romania told the Global Times that they have properly resettled more than 1,000 Chinese nationals evacuated from Ukraine as of Wednesday and will continue to mobilize all resources to provide support.On Wednesday afternoon, 450 people were evacuated from Kiev to neighboring countries on 10 buses, embassy staff told the Global Times. They were mainly students, as well as Chinese nationals who could not evacuate on their own, their families and reporters in Ukraine. "Our bus sped down the highway with Ukrainian police cars opening the way for us," said an evacuated Chinese citizen, noting that "it was a race against time."The embassy's staff said additional 40 people will be evacuated from Kiev later on Wednesday. In Kharkiv, where the evacuation met some challenges in the past few days, more than 100 Chinese nationals were also evacuated to Odessa on Wednesday. Local Chinese social organizations and chambers of commerce have been providing accommodation and food to the evacuees. The Chinese consulate general in Odessa will organize the evacuation to Moldova. The University Kharkiv Aviation Institute also organized the evacuation of 188 Chinese students to Moldova on Wednesday, according to the embassy. As of Wednesday afternoon, more than 2,700 Chinese nationals and their families had been evacuated from Ukraine through the embassy's evacuation mission, which has over 6,000 registered people. The embassy told the Global Times that many Chinese nationals have left Ukraine on their own. More than 1,000 Chinese nationals evacuated from Ukraine are now in Romania, the Chinese embassy in Romania told the Global Times. "The embassy in Romania has sent working groups to the two major border crossings to orderly receive and transport the Chinese citizens evacuated from Ukraine into the country. Many Chinese social organizations and Chinese-funded institutions have also offered their help," a spokesperson of the embassy told the Global Times on Wednesday, adding that "we are trying to find ways to mobilize all resources and strength to provide support and assistance for the safe transfer of the evacuees to Romania."In a notice issued on Monday afternoon, the embassy said a number of neighboring countries including Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland will provide assistance to Chinese nationals coming from Ukraine. Under the embassy's coordination, these countries will facilitate the entrance of Chinese nationals by temporarily waiving visa requirements to valid passport holders or offering assistance at customs for a fast entrance. After arriving in neighboring countries, charter flights will be arranged to return evacuees to China.