The rap cypher Photo:Sina Weibo "It is literally all around us. I think it is meaningful to speak up about what we see," young rapper Wang Ziyu told the Global Times, describing a project he recently took part in that saw rappers from more than 20 local universities in the Chongqing Municipality perform a song supporting the city's efforts to fight against COVID-19. More than 40 rappers from over 20 local institutions of higher learning such as Chongqing University, Sichuan Fine Arts Institute and the Chongqing City Management College gathered in a university town in Chongqing to perform the 15-minute cypher.Led by the a short intro of news reports about the surging cases of COVID-19 in the city and three confirmed cases in Chongqing City Management College on March 12, the song was launched into a rap showing support for local efforts to combat COVID-19.Almost all the rappers singing the song showed gratitude toward medical workers' efforts to ensure their own safety after confirmed cases at one institution caused a whole town to be locked down.    As Wang, a student at the Sichuan Fine Arts Institute, described, medical workers worked overnight to deliver nucleic acid tests to students, an action that deeply moved him and made him want to do something for them. "We can always face/ we can always take/ despite endless rain/ we don't care about pain/ under the devil changing different ways we will win/ thanks to those angels in white in the wind who saved us from the bad thing…" Wang rapped during his verse.Other university rappers like Zhang Zhipeng, a music major at the Chongqing University of Arts and Sciences, put a lot of love in his verse to describe the resilience and unity of the more than twenty thousand teachers and students at his institution in the Youngchuan district, which was locked down in mid-March due to a surge in cases."The sense that we are all bound together inspired me to write my verse," noted Zhang. "I want to rap about the truth I saw to deliver its positive energy." Zhang also emphasized that many young rappers in China today want to show that the music genre is not just about rebellious and "dirty" content as many rappers focus their passions on social and cultural issues, which he defines them as "educated young musicians.""There are around 90 rappers in the group who put their hand up in the air for the project," Wang noted.     "Many Chinese rappers came from the root that is different from that of the West, so the things we focus on are different. Keep it real and keep your eyes on what is happening are the truths to follow in rap music. It makes you cooler than when you always talk about money or girls," Fenggie, a rapper in Shanghai, told the Global Times.  Organized by the PaiStudio, a music studio dedicated to Chinese artists' reflections on street culture, the Chongqing cypher was followed by a performance of the studio's previously organized Xi'an cypher, which was also dedicated to the fight against COVID-19. "As a socially responsible young person who is cool, rap is my choice to speak up and encourage social change when things go wrong," noted Zhang.