China sent two batches of humanitarian aid to Ukraine over the past few days, with the third batch expected to arrive soon. The supplies include food, sleeping bags and moisture-proof pads. China's humanitarian aid will be delivered in multiple batches and is worth about 5 million yuan ($791,000) in total. Photo: Courtesy of the Chinese Embassy in UkraineChina supports all efforts that will help de-escalate tensions and reach a political settlement in Ukraine, and China is willing to make its contribution to help the country overcome the humanitarian crisis, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Thursday in response to Chinese ambassador in Ukraine Fan Xianrong's remarks on helping Ukraine with its economy during a meeting with local officials in Lviv. "China and Ukraine are strategic partners, and this year marks the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries. China is a friendly country for the Ukrainian people. As an ambassador, I can responsibly say that China will forever be a good force for Ukraine, both economically and politically. We will always respect your state, develop relations on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. We will respect the path chosen by Ukrainians because this is the sovereign right of every nation," Fan said at the meeting in Lviv Regional Military Administration, Ukrinform reported on Tuesday. "China will never attack Ukraine, we will help, in particular in the economic direction. We have seen how great the unity of the Ukrainian people is, and that means its strength," the ambassador added.Spokesperson Zhao Lijian responded to Fan's remarks at Thursday's press briefing, saying that China supports the statement made by the Chinese ambassador, reiterating that China supports all efforts that will help de-escalate the situation and reach a political settlement in Ukraine, while opposing all acts that are not conducive to promoting a diplomatic solution. China will continue to play a constructive role in easing the situation in Ukraine, and is willing to help the country overcome its humanitarian crisis, Zhao said.China sent two batches of humanitarian aid to Ukraine over the past few days, with the third batch expected to arrive soon. The supplies include food, sleeping bags and moisture-proof pads. China's humanitarian aid will be delivered in multiple batches and is worth about 5 million yuan ($791,000) in total.Global Times