A selfie of figure skating star Yuzuru Hanyu and Bing Dwen Dwen. March 14, 2022. From: Weibo account of Chinese figure skaters Liu Xinyu. Unwilling to say goodbye to Bing Dwen Dwen and Shuey Rhon Rhon, a panda and a red-lantern child serving as the Olympic mascots, netizens at home and abroad recalled happy memories and expressed their love and appreciation as the Beijing 2022 Winter Paralympic Games came to an end on Sunday.The selfie of figure skating star Yuzuru Hanyu and Bing Dwen Dwen went viral on Twitter on Monday after Chinese figure skaters Liu Xinyu posted it on Sunday on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo.Foreign netizens relaid and translated Liu's word. "Hanyu told me that there must be a lot of people wanted to see the selfie. Having no idea who to send to, he entrusted me to send it to everyone," Liu wrote.Some posted photos of taking a half-meter-sized plastic panel in Shuey Rhon Rhon's shape on the plane back home as they said farewell to Beijing and thanked Shuey Rhon Rhon's for its warm company.

Shuey Rhon Rhon was on the plane to accompany a foreign staffer back home from Beijing. March 14, 2022. From: Twitter At the same time, Bing Dwen Dwen and Shuey Rhon Rhon remain in high demand, despite the end of Winter Paralympic Games. An employee from the Beijing 2022 official licensed merchandise flagship store in Wangfujing, Beijing told the Global Times on Monday that popular merchandise of the two mascots was out of stock, including the plush dolls, key chains, garage kits, pins, blind boxes and crystal balls,  confirming that new inventory would arrive soon."The related merchandise of Bing Dwen Dwen and Shuey Rhon Rhon in our shop have sold out. And we don't take customers' reservation right now since we don't know when the merchandise will arrive. The customers may have to wait in line early to buy the merchandise when we occasionally have units available," an employee from another Olympic official licensed merchandise flagship store in Yatu, Beijing told the Global Times.According to the online Olympic flagship store on China-based online market Taobao, the delivery timeframe for Bing Dwen Dwen and Shuey Rhon Rhon merchanise was around 30 to 45 days after the customer paid.A netizen said on Weibo that she hoped to buy a pair of garage kits of the panda and the lantern kid so much because it represents the precious memory of the winter just finished. Hashtages "Don't want Shuey Rhon Rhon to go", "Bing Dwen Dwen picks Shuey Rhon Rhon from work" and "Farewell ! Bing Dwen Dwen and Shuey Rhon Rhon " gained more than 130 million views and comments on Weibo, with tens of thousands of Chinese netizens expressing their love and appreciation.One netizen commented "the 60-day Winter Olympics and Paralympics are over. Please remember all the athletes fighting for honor, as well as all the staffers and volunteers. Farewell Beijing！ Farewell Bing Dwen Dwen and Shuey Rhon Rhon ！""I really don't want them to go. I was wondering if we can apply to the Olympic Committee for the usage of the mascots to open a theme park just like Disneyland. Not just Bing Dwen Dwen and Shuey Rhon Rhon, but include each and every mascot of all the previous Summer and Winter Olympic Games."