A deliveryman carries daily necessities at a residential area under closed-off management in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Dec. 31, 2021. Xi'an imposed closed-off management for communities and villages on Dec. 23 in an effort to curb the spread of the latest COVID-19 resurgence. (Xinhua/Tao Ming)As multiple provinces across China are now caught up in a new round of COVID-19 flare-up in the third year "stolen" by the unrelenting virus, a delivery man from Shenzhen city, South China's Guangdong Province, has spoken the mind of many which has touched Chinese netizens' heart in a message left for the local health commission. "Contactless delivery without having to climb up stairs has been a great convenience for us, but I don't like this. I'd rather climb nine floors just to tell my customers 'enjoy your meal,'" the man said. Shenzhen, one of the most developed cities in China that neighbors Hong Kong with a population of 12 million people, reported 60 new confirmed patients and 6 asymptomatic cases on Saturday, the local health commission said. In a notice issued by the commission on Saturday, eleven areas of Shenzhen have banned dine-ins and the city shut down public venues including bars and cinemas, rolling out contactless delivery for food and other daily supplies to residents. A delivery man using the name "Time" left a message under the notice, which has caught many people's attention. "I am a delivery man, and to be honest, now is really a good time for us. Contactless delivery without having to climb up stairs has been a great convenience for us, but I don't like this. I don't want my convenience to be built on other people's sufferings.""I miss when I used to climb up floors to deliver food to my customers' hands, and I miss seeing the businesses busy. I want the pandemic to be over as soon as possible, and everything to go back to normalcy," he said. The message was soon placed on top of the comment bar by the health commission, drawing over 30,000 thumbs-up reactions as of press time. Many said they were getting emotional after reading the comment as they recalled their lives in the past three years that had been repeatedly disrupted by the virus. Some said, "I miss seeing my deliveries placed in my hands so that I can say 'thank you' directly to the delivery men."The delivery service has become an increasingly important access for people to get life necessities across China in the past many months. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said at a press conference on Friday that over 200 million people are now engaged in flexible employment in China, many of whom are express courier providers. "They have to work braving winds and rains. Many localities have provided them with heart-warming services. The government should improve policies related to their labor rights and interests as well as social protection, such as providing more welfare and protection to deliverymen. In this way, these new forms of employment will not only meet people's pressing need, but also help unlock market vitality and public creativity," Li said at the press conference after the closing of the fifth session of the 13th National People's Congress. Global Times