Delegates embrace outside the Great Hall of the People after the second plenary session of the National People's Congress (NPC) in Beijing,on March 8, 2022. Photo: ICThe holiday greetings to women worldwide sent by female taikonaut Wang Yaping from the space station on the International Women's Day drew netizens' salutes to "woman power" in China across social media on Tuesday."Although our nationalities, ethnicities and occupations are different, women all over the world are making the world more vibrant, more harmonious and warmer through their own efforts... I wish every female compatriot gathers the brightest stars for their lives and careers in the starry sky," Wang said. The blessing from space was for every woman who strives to create her own life in her own way.In the past year, China has witnessed the blossoming and growth of glittering "woman power" in all walks of life, such as Zhang Guimei who is the female principal of the Chinese mainland's first tuition-free high school for girls from impoverished families in a remote mountainous region. She was also one of the People Who Moved China in 2020 and July 1 Medal winner.There was also head coach Shui Qingxia, who guided China to win the AFC Women's Asian Cup after 16 years; Remila Dabul, a 27-year-old woman of Kazak ethnicity who is the only female deck operation officer on the Liaoning aircraft carrier, and 13 individuals from the Ministry of Public Security who were titled bearers of Red Flag March 8."These examples of 'woman power' have been upholding half the sky for society, influencing more women to pursue their dreams," a netizen wrote on Weibo.  Huang Qi, a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) and deputy president of the Shanghai Women's Federation, told the Global Times about many successful women from all walks of life, who are vivid portrayals of "woman power" in China. Women could be somebody in any field, even industries that were once regarded as being for only men, as the legal system in China supports females to do so and the status of women has been improving over the years.  Chairman Mao said "women hold up half the sky," and because of this, the world and families become warmer and lives become more colorful, Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson from the Chinese Foreign Ministry, said during Tuesday's press briefing. Zhao wore a red tie at the briefing, as he did last year, saying he deliberately did so because of the holiday.China has established a comprehensive legal system including more than 100 laws and regulations to protect women's rights and interests.China has been listed as one of the 10 countries with high performances in maternal and child health by the WHO. The country has basically eliminated the gender gap in compulsory education, and women account for more than 40 percent of the workforce and more than half of the entrepreneurs in the internet sector, statistics showed.The International Women's Day fell during the two sessions, where several laws and provisions regarding women's rights were highlighted, such as revisions to the Law on the Protection of Women's Rights and Interests. The Supreme People's Court work report showed the country's resolute support in punishing trafficking of women and domestic abuse.   Huang said that more could be done to achieve real equality between men and women, such as rolling out more convenience and support to women to fulfill their special needs at work, and do more to awaken women who are still suffering from gender inequality.