Qu Weidong is cutting hair for a customer Photo: Screenshot of Xinhua videoInside a closed loop hotel in Zhangjiakou, in North China's Hebei Province, one of the three main competition areas of Beijing 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, local Zhangjiakou barber, Qu Weidong and his friend rented a place for his new barbershop for costumers that include volunteers, media staff and all workers of the Games. He will provide his services from December 11, 2021, until the Paralympic Games are over on March 13."How much money are you going to make out of this?" That is the most frequent question Qu has received from his family and friends.Generally, the 40 days before the Spring Festival and on Longtaitou Day (the second day of the second lunar month) are the golden period for barbers in China to make money, with many barber shops earning more than they would normally do in six months."Well, economically I lost a lot of money. But this experience is priceless," Qu told Xinhua News Agency in his shop after he finished his work with the last costumer of the day.Qu cherished this experience as he strived for this opportunity to be the "barber in honor" after he stood out among hundreds of barber competitors. "I feel so honored for doing this as a local in Zhangjiakou. You know, many wanted to be here but there's only one position," he said.It is a well-equipped shop with a traditional barber's pole standing at the front door in case athletes and officials from other countries cannot recognize his shop. Decorated with light-colored floor tiles and low wooden cabinets, scissors, clippers, combs, and hair dryers are neatly arranged on the table.Due to the strict COVID-19 rules, the shop can only have 17 costumers a day who need to reserve a spot ahead. A 20-minute disinfection period is also needed every time Qu finishes.Qu picked two robes for his customers with Chinese traditional dragons and phoenix . Over the past two months he has cut the hair of over 1,000 customers from over 20 countries, thanks to his exquisite technique.However, apart from all, what Qu looks forward to most is the closing ceremony of the Paralympic Winter Games which is going to be held in one week. After that, he still needs to stay in quarantine in a hotel for three weeks, according to the COVID-19 regulations of Beijing 2022, before he can reunite with his wife."My wife also works for Beijing 2022. She works in room service at a hotel hosting members of the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games," said Qu."We have been parted for almost three months and talking through video calls. All she has been asking from me is to give her a lovely hairstyle," Qu mentioned remembering his wife.