China-US Photo: GT An anonymous official told the Global Times that at the request of the US, Chinese President Xi Jinping and US President Joe Biden will hold a phone call to exchange views on China-US relations and the Ukraine situation; out of considerations of bilateral relations, promoting peace talks and urging the US to take right stance, China accepted the proposal. Not surprisingly, before the phone talk, some US officials have intensively made irresponsible remarks and spread disinformation to smear China and pressure it over the Ukraine issue. Such deeds have become “common practices” of the US before high-level interactions, which are irresponsible and immoral, said the official. China will never accept US threats and coercion, and if the US takes measures that harm China's legitimate interests and the interests of Chinese enterprises and individuals, China will not sit idly by and will make a strong response, the official stressed, noting the US should not have any illusions or miscalculations about this. Since the Ukraine crisis began, given the right and wrongs of the facts, China has made an independent judgment and constructive efforts. China has insisted on independent diplomatic policies, respected the sovereignty and integrity of every country, abided by the UN Charter and principles, paid attention to the security concerns of all countries, and supported all efforts that facilitate handling the crisis peacefully, said the official. The international community can fairly judge who is frank and open and who is up to something, who is easing the situation and who is aggravating tension, who is promoting peace talks and who is pouring fuel on the fire, and who is maintaining peace and stability and who is provoking confrontations between blocs, the official said.  As the initiator and directly concerned party of the Ukraine crisis, the US should reflect on its own role, earnestly assume its historical responsibility and take concrete actions to resolve the crisis and win the trust of the international community, the official said. Who is on the right side of history and who is on the wrong side of history will be proved by history, not decided by individual countries or individuals, the official said.The official said that China will continue to urge the US to fulfill President Biden's commitment of not seeking a new Cold War, not seeking changes in China's system, not seeking a stronger alliance against China, not supporting "Taiwan secessionism” and not seeking conflict with China. China urges the US to follow the principles of mutual respect, peaceful coexistence and win-win cooperation, work with China to implement the consensus reached by the two heads of state and bring bilateral relations back to the right track of sound and stable development at an early date, the official said.