Ye Jing, a woman appearing in the documentary Women Home Photo: Courtesy of Dai Xianjing  

Lao Yao, a woman appearing in the documentary Women Home Photo: Courtesy of Dai Xianjing  

Photographer Dai Xianjing  Photo: Courtesy of Dai Xianjing  Over the past six years, a photography project that captures the different solitary moments of women over 30 has trained its creator Dai Xianjing to become a professional observer of "lonely" women in China. Originating with an attempt to find meaning in life after a breakup, the project has become more than a means for Dai to console herself and is now commonly appreciated by many others who see how women can gain more inner strength and wisdom when they are independent.After breaking up with her partner in 2016, the then almost 30-year-old Dai embarked on a new creative project by taking snapshots of her friend, a woman living on her own in Shanghai who was single and pregnant at the time. Dai told the Global Times that she enjoys the woman-to-woman conversations in her project as they help her on her journey of self discovery and provide solutions to puzzles she has experienced when it comes to the subjects of romance and self-love. Though she doesn't like to brag, to date Dai has collaborated with more than 40 women in her project, discussing topics such as marriage, loneliness and independence with them in ordinary yet "intimate" settings such as their bedrooms. "One of the most difficult bits of the project is getting people to open up and be comfortable talking about their private stories," Dai told the Global Times. "To be able to get close to a participant who represents a certain group people's voice, the artist often has to play a sociologist role, to observe, to investigate like a researcher who respects the truth," Liang Wanli, a feminist study scholar, told the Global Times.  Dai gradually became a collector of women's stories, sourcing stories from her friends or people in her email inbox over the following years. Many of those stories allowed Dai to see how different women find self-actualization. Dai recalled one yoga teacher in Beijing. Being someone who chose to live separately from her husband, she had rented a dorm to turn it into a private yoga training space. The room was not only home for the woman and her kid but also her dream of becoming a yoga coach, which was strongly opposed by her husband. "She told me that her husband never recognized her value as an individual. But when she teaches, the 'thanks' she gets from her students made her whole," said Dai. "From such details, we see what women actually care about nowadays." The first few years after Dai's project began, she used photos and writings to share her observations about the women she encountered. But as her understanding of "living-alone" women improved, it inspired her to strive to redefine how society sees these women.  "The project is not about documenting all women who live alone, but focuses on the stories of women who live for themselves," said Dai. "It focuses on one's inner growth when she is by herself, and is not an attention-seeking effort to flaunt their independent situation." To Dai, the concept of "being single and living alone" has been too frequently associated with posts such as "the safety issues of women live on their own" and "tips to pretend you have a man when you are single" on social media. "I think the key to the stereotype is that some people still believe that a woman is more likely to be a victim compared to a man and that women are always in danger," Dai remarked. Continuing her not-giving-up attitude, the creator began working with streaming platforms like Bilibili and Tencent Video to turn the project into a documentary series.  Dai told the Global Times that she received "content modification guidance" from one platform that required her to find some women who have actually been experiencing safety issues living on their own and to change the project's direction to focus on the safety of women. Yet she chose not to compromise her vision to explore the inner lives of women. In the end, the platform gave her the freedom she needed to create her new documentary Women Home.The "live-action" version of Dai's 2016 project debuted on Tencent Video in March. The documentary series focuses on three women of different age and careers. Their stories revolve around women's issues such as health and body concerns. But no matter what is discussed, it shows how they cope with these issues with independence. "Having such productions screen on major platforms such as Tencent Video shows the increased confidence media has in their audiences' acceptance. In other words, it shows the increased social acceptance of such new works," Li Xiang, a fellow female director, told the Global Times."The emergence of such productions, subtly but obviously shows audiences the power of women when they chose to be the one they want. They are decision-makers," Li noted. "In order to live alone, you have to be self-sufficient, to be able to earn things in society to make a living," noted Dai.