Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi meets with Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry during the foreign ministers' meeting of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). Photo: fmprcEgypt opposes some countries for putting pressure on China and stands for strengthening cooperation rather than exacerbating conflicts, Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry told Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on the Ukraine issue during the foreign ministers' meeting of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). It was the first time for the Chinese foreign minister to attend the foreign ministers' meeting of the OIC, the biggest international organization of Islamic countries. Wang said China and Egypt enjoy profound friendship and solid mutual trust. Last year, two-way trade between China and Egypt increased by 37 percent despite the pandemic, which fully demonstrates the highly complementary nature of the two economies. The two countries have worked together to build Africa's first production line of COVID-19 vaccines, which demonstrated their traditional friendship and enriched the concept of their comprehensive strategic partnership, Wang said. China has always viewed relations with Egypt as a diplomatic priority in the Middle East and Africa, Wang added. Wang and Shoukry also exchanged their opinions on the Ukraine issue, cooperation with the Islamic world, and climate change. The two agreed to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries and commit themselves to a comprehensive solution to the current crisis. Shoukry said Egypt opposes some countries for putting pressure on China and stands for strengthening cooperation rather than exacerbating conflicts. Egypt will host the 27th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 27) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) at the end of this year. Egypt attaches great importance to China's crucial role and contribution and looks forward to strengthening coordination and cooperation with China in helping developing countries achieve their greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets, he said. Wang said China has always taken part in the global action on climate change with a responsible attitude and has made important contributions to reaching the Paris Agreement. China supports Egypt in making COP27 a success and ensuring that the global response to climate change moves in the right direction, Wang added. Global Times - Xinhua