The Yangfan Wind Band enters the Opening Ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Paralympic Winter Games on March 4, 2022. Top: The Yangfan Wind Band Photo: IC

The Yangfan Wind Band enters the Opening Ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Paralympic Winter Games on March 4, 2022. Top: The Yangfan Wind Band Photo: ICAll eyes turned to dual-Olympic city Beijing on Friday as the Paralympic flag was raised at the 2022 Paralympic Winter Games Opening Ceremony. One highlight of the opening, the Games' anthem "Hymne de l'Avenir" (Anthem of the Future) was performed by a wind band consisting of child musicians with vision impairments whose love for music and endless efforts of the past 11 years paved their way to their Paralympic debut. A seed of ambitionThe Yangfan Wind Band from the Special Education Center in Southwest China's Chongqing Municipality consists of 44 vision-impaired children, the youngest of whom is only 10 years old.  Back when the band was founded in 2011, the initial members never imagined the group would one day perform at the Paralympics. The band was founded in 2011 not long after the students' teacher took them to a local New Year concert, which unexpectedly revealed their hidden talent and passion for music. "The initial intention was to expand their interest in music," the band's lead teacher Zhou Yuanqi told the Global Times. "But some of them could sing the songs right after listening to the music." The students' obvious passion motivated the teachers to push for the school to hire a professional music teacher to guide them on their musical journey. Other teachers at the school for subjects such as chemistry and math also lent their support whenever they could. In March 2013, the band debuted with a performance of the song "Ode to Joy" at the school. In 2017, they performed on stage outside the school for the first time. These successes planted a seed in the students' hearts that grew into the ambition to take on the bigger goal of performing at the Beijing 2022 Games, Zhou told the Global Times.     Their dreams came true in November 2021 when they received an invitation from the organizers of the Paralympics. The entire band was overjoyed at the news.Zhou explained that it was especially meaningful for some of the children who had never been to Beijing before and that some of their parents shed tears of joy after receiving the news. Polishing their swords There were only a little more than 100 days left for the band to practice for the performance set for March 2022, and according to the agreement with the Paralympics, the wind band could not receive professional training. So this led to increased workload and pressure for the band and the teachers as they embarked on their Beijing journey. "Even when we arrived in Beijing, we still continued to practice many times till midnight. None of the children ever complained despite that the unfamiliar environment and the cold weather made them feel a little bit insecure," said Zhou.  "Polishing a sword for 10 years" is an old Chinese saying that describes the continued effort one puts in to achieve a goal. This saying is no more suitable when used to describe the band as each member is a talented individual, and most of them have been polishing their skills for more than 10 years. Nineteen-year-old Wang Taifan is the band's lead trumpeter. Losing his vision while in 6th grade, the once shy boy gained a new source of confidence after he received his first shining silver trumpet. He was getting more and more confident in music.  "If you have a bright place in your heart, the world will then smile at you," Wang said. "My goal is to practice the trumpet until I reach my best."The youngest musician Wu Haoyu is the most outgoing and bubbly kid in the group. He is a gifted pianist who often likes to improvise music, but he knows how to work in a team when it comes to playing his part. The 10-year-old grew homesick during his time in Beijing, but when he called home, he would tell his family, "I can do this!"  Wearing sky blue suits while standing under the dazzling spotlights at the "Bird's Nest" National Stadium, the 44 children looked united as they performed at the opening ceremony. While their section lasted less than two minutes, the memories will stay with them forever.  Need for opportunitiesZhou explained to the Global Times that the band proves that these children are no different than any other children, but have the potential to excel when given the right opportunity like them. "They also have advantages that many of us don't have. They can be more concentrated and dedicated to one thing free from being disturbed by the outside world," Zhou said.Like any other kids their age, these young musicians also take standard courses such as math, computing, Chinese and English at school. "In the past, there was a misconception that special education teachers are nannies for these children, who were seen as vulnerable," noted Zhou. "But, in fact, they are capable people, who need opportunities, especially career-wise! I hope society can help them with that."  As an established band with experienced instrumentalists, the Yangfan Wind Band has expanded to 70 members, making it the world's largest wind band formed by vision-impaired individuals. "The Paralympics is a new beginning for us. We will continue practice and perform. All of this is for our children to be able to see with their hearts."