The first freight train from the Chinese mainland to Hong Kong carrying anti-epidemic supplies, including more than 1.1million COVID-19 testing kits and 10,000 protective garments, launches on Wednesday. Photo: VCGThe first freight train from the Chinese mainland to Hong Kong carrying anti-epidemic supplies, including more than 1.1million COVID-19 testing kits and 10,000 protective garments, was launched on Wednesday, providing aid to the city amid rising infections and panic purchase among residents. Carrie Lam, the chief executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR), welcomed the train after it reached the city from Shenzhen on Wednesday. Ensuring sufficient supplies of resources is a key part of the mainland's aid to Hong Kong, which has been comprehensive and quick, Lam said at the site, expressing her gratitude to the mainland.The aid came at a time when there was a panic purchase among Hong Kong residents who began to stock up on groceries for a possible lockdown during citywide mass testing. Lam advised residents not to believe in rumors, calling panic buying of daily necessities unnecessary. Whether the daily necessities are delivered by sea, land or rail, it will be continuously sent to Hong Kong, Lam assured the public. The successful operation of the freight train from Shenzhen to Hong Kong was a joint effort of departments of the Hong Kong SAR government and Shenzhen government which was completed in a week under instructions from the central government. Its operation also marks the resumption of cross-border railway freight trains to Hong Kong, which have been dormant since 2010, the Global Times learned from the Shenzhen municipal transportation commission.The freight train from the mainland will deliver anti-epidemic supplies and fresh products everyday with 18 containers from Pinghunan National Logistics in Shenzhen to Hong Kong. The trip takes about 35 minutes. The frequency of freight trains and number of containers will be increased depending on need. Aid from the mainland has been comprehensive. Besides freight trains, aid for Hong Kong has been also delivered by sea. Around noon on Wednesday, 26 standard containers loaded with daily necessities left Nansha port in Guangzhou, the world's 5th largest port, for Hong Kong, port authority told the Global Times on Wednesday. On Monday, the Huadu port in Guangzhou also sent 200,000 protective mask shields and 90,000 protective goggles to Hong Kong. To facilitate city-wide testing in Hong Kong, the central government has already organized nucleic acid testing teams composed of about 9,000 people, and they can leave for the city any time Hong Kong needs them, according to Li Dachuan, an official from the National Health Commission.