Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi attends a press conference on China's foreign policy and foreign relations via video link on the sidelines of the fifth session of the 13th National People's Congress (NPC) at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, March 7, 2022. (Xinhua/Chen Zhonghao)Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi answered 27 questions on China's foreign policies and foreign relations at a press conference with journalists from home and abroad Monday afternoon. His replies went straight to the point and clearly clarified China's positions and views. An outstanding impression people have is that this was a candid and pragmatic press conference. It's also a microcosm of China's image, which is gentle and confident, candid and sincere, a general tone based on peace and development, vividly showing what should be the behavior of a major country.Wang used a few words to precisely summarize the international situation and China's stance in his opening remarks. In the 100-minute press conference, "cooperation" was mentioned more than 80 times. Against the background of profound change unseen in a century intertwined with the pandemic, it is of unusual significance that the Chinese side emphasized cooperation. Wang said at such a critical moment, countries need solidarity, not division, dialogue, not confrontation. Human society is facing fierce competition between the Chinese diplomatic lines and the US ones: Unity or division? Dialogue or confrontation? Multilateralism or unilateralism? China's choice is unquestionable and its words match deeds. The Ukraine crisis is one of the hotspot issues that receive the most attention at the moment. At the press conference, Wang reiterated China's position and expressed China's willingness to continue to play a constructive role in promoting dialogue for peace and working alongside the international community when needed to carry out necessary mediation. He also put forward a six-point initiative on preventing large-scale humanitarian crises. To speak for justice and do justice is the posture of China as a responsible global power, which is in sharp contrast to the US, which brings chaos wherever it intervenes. It's obvious to see who is the constructor of world peace. In the past year, the overall international environment has become turbulent, but it in turn has honed China's diplomacy. Chinese diplomacy has become increasingly mature and steady throughout the year, with remarkable performances. Trade between China and the EU has exceeded $800 billion for the first time; the number of participants in the Belt and Road Initiative has reached 180; China-ASEAN relations are moving forward as fast as a train running on the China-Laos Railway; The China-Russia relationship has become one of the most critical bilateral relations in the world. These are tangible results of win-win cooperation.It is noticeable that about two-thirds of the 27 questions and Wang's answers were directly or indirectly related to the US, which reflects the wide implication of China-US relations. Who is adding fuel to the fire and intensifying the conflicts on the Ukraine issue? Who has picked up the Cold War mentality again and created confrontation? Who doesn't want to see the steady development of China-EU relations? Who is driving a wedge in the relationship between China and its neighbors? Who sees Latin America as its "backyard?" Who is making waves in the South China Sea? Wang did not say it explicitly, but the answer is self-evident, and the world's understanding of it will become deeper.Driven by a distorted mind-set toward China, the US' diplomatic moves have become increasingly narrow-minded and extreme, but Beijing has not fallen into the vicious cycle of reciprocating the moves toward Washington. While resolutely defending its legitimate interests and safeguarding international justice and rules, China has also repeatedly urged the US to "reinstate a reasonable and pragmatic China policy." As Wang said on Monday, in a globalized and interdependent world, how will China and the US find the right way to get along is both a new topic for humanity and a formulation that must be worked out by the two countries together. This is how broad-minded and highly responsible China's diplomacy is.Unlike Washington's "bloodsucking" behavior that has made the world pay for the US' internal crisis, China always hopes that its own development can benefit other countries and regions as much as possible. It has proposed the Global Development Initiative, and what it has done is all about "transfusing blood" for the world. The just concluded Beijing Winter Olympic Games and the ongoing Paralympic Games have provided a rare moment of reunion and solidarity for all countries. China has also made a lot of solid contributions in many areas, including providing substantial support to the global fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, promoting world economic recovery, regional peace and development, and South-South cooperation.It is particularly worth mentioning that the foundation of China's diplomacy has always been people-centered. The "Spring Seedling Action," which provides overseas Chinese citizens with the COVID-19 vaccine, has reached almost every part of the world and helped millions of people in 180 countries. At the same time, China is the only country that has the ability to extend its fight against the epidemic to its citizens overseas. The return of Meng Wanzhou to the embrace of her motherland after 1,028 days of unreasonable detention is a major victory for China's diplomacy. Netizens expressed their appreciation in different ways. This is a great encouragement to Chinese people: Their motherland will always be the powerful backing of every Chinese citizen. "To make the world a better place, major countries must lead by example." And China is becoming such an example. China's development has proven to increase the certainty of the world and promote the development and growth of peaceful forces. China has always represented stability and positivity. This will become clearer and clearer as time passes.