Hong Kong residents converge on the streets of Causeway Bay?on June 30, 2020 to celebrate the 23rd anniversary of returned to China and the enactment of the National Security Law.?Photo: VCGChina's permanent representative to the UN Office at Geneva Chen Xu introduced the positive changes brought by the National Security Law for Hong Kong and reform of the SAR's electoral system during a side meeting at the ongoing 49th session of the UN Human Rights Council. Over a dozen country representatives voiced sound support for the one-China principle, saying that some countries have been spreading false information and smearing China, and that their political intentions will never succeed.The meeting, joined by John Lee Ka-chiu, chief secretary for administration of the HKSAR government, was attended by 90 delegates, senior diplomats and the press from over 40 countries. Chen said that since the return of Hong Kong to its motherland, the principle of "one country, two systems," under which the people of Hong Kong govern Hong Kong with a high degree of autonomy, has been fully implemented. With the National Security Law for Hong Kong in place and reform of the SAR's electoral system, Hong Kong has witnessed a historic turnaround from chaos to governance and from governance to prosperity, and the legal rights of the Hong Kong people are better exercised in a safer environment. Any attempt to meddle in Hong Kong's affairs and undermine its prosperity and stability is doomed to fail, the Chinese envoy said. He added that the central government is doing its utmost to support Hong Kong's fight against the rampaging epidemic and has faith the SAR will overcome the challenge. "Two years ago, Hong Kong was subjected to unprecedented violent riots and the public lived in fear. The National Security Law effectively put an end to the chaos, restoring peace to the Hong Kong society," Lee noted at the meeting. The reform of the SAR's electoral system implemented the principle of "patriots governing Hong Kong" which demonstrated broad representation and balanced participation, significantly improving the quality and efficiency of Hong Kong's Legislative Council. Several representatives from various fields of Hong Kong shared their experiences on the positive changes brought over the years. They pointed out that the public has restored faith in the SAR's political system, and Hong Kong has been presented with more opportunities and room for development. However, the US and some Western countries have kept meddling in the internal affairs of China, with the true aim of undermining China's development. Over a dozen countries including Russia and Iran voiced support for the one-China principle, reiterating that Hong Kong is an inalienable part of China. Some countries have been recklessly spreading false information and smearing China on issues related to Hong Kong, and their political intentions are known to all and will never succeed. Global Times