Big Air Shougang, the venue for Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games in Beijing, lit up on Nov. 28, 2019. The only snow event venue in the downtown area for the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games, Big Air Shougang will host an FIS Freestyle Ski and Snowboard World Cup competition from Dec. 10 to 14. Photo: China News ServiceAfter the Beijing Olympic Winter Games, the Big Air Shougang is set to be used as a cultural and sport center for events from concerts to extreme skateboarding competitions as part of the capital's plan to keep the landmark alive.An industrial park built around an abandoned steel factory in the capital city, Big Air Shougang is a showcase of urban transformation that hosted numerous world champions during Beijing 2022.But from now on, Big Air Shougang will "target a younger demographic," said a Big Air Shougang representative at a press conference on Wednesday. Big Air Shougang will make a bid to host international competitions such as FIS Freestyle Ski and Snowboard World Championships and will also launch international training camps with professional organizations to attract more young people to experience and participate in winter sports.In addition to sports, the venue will also be used as a place for cultural activities such as concerts and light shows in order to integrate the venue into citizen's everyday lives for leisure and entertainment.However, don't expect these changes overnight. "Our plans will need to be accomplished step by step," a Big Air Shougang representative told the Global Times after the press conference."Concerning our event plans, we are currently negotiating with different parties. It will still take some time before an event is nailed down. For now our venue is only open to tourists. Spring will be a good time to visit."At present, several venues used during the Beijing Winter Olympic Games have been opened to the public for various activities. According to a press conference held by the Beijing 2022 organizing committee in mid-March, Olympic competition venues, including those in the Yanqing district in Beijing and Zhangjiakou in North China's Hebei Province, will be transformed into winter sports centers or mountain and summer resorts based on their function. Meanwhile, the National Speed Skating Oval will also be opened to the public so that up to 2,000 people may enjoy skating at the same time. The National Aquatics Center is said to be opened since April, and will be returned to the swimming center from June.A section of the Yanqing National Sliding Center will be opened to the public and the National Biathlon Centre will be rebuilt as a winter sports training base for young people.Most of the accessible facilities of the  Beijing 2022 venues will also be retained as much as possible.