Residents line up for COVID-19 nucleic acid tests in Langfang, North China's Hebei Province on March 18, 2022. Photo:VCGNorth China's Hebei Province on Sunday reported 534 asymptomatic COVID-19 cases,all in Langfang, a city near Beijing, as pressure on the coordinated prevention and control measures in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region increases amid the virus surge. Hebei also reported 21 confirmed cases. Tangshan, North China's Hebei Province, has been put into emergency mode and has imposed 24-hour traffic restrictions starting Sunday until further notice. All after-school training institutions in Tangshan will be temporarily closed and all teaching and training activities will be suspended. The resumption of classes will be subject to further notice. Venues such as Internet cafes, game halls, KTV, cinemas, chess and card rooms, billiard rooms have been temporarily closed.According to the Office of Tangshan Epidemic Prevention and Control Leading Group, except for special vehicles such as medical ambulances, fire rescue vehicles, military and police vehicles and vehicles related to epidemic prevention and control, people's livelihood protection and emergency supplies transport issued by relevant departments, other vehicles are prohibited from passing in principle.According to Hebei authorities, Anci District of Langfang was heavily hit by the outbreak. Public information shows that Anci is the municipal district and main urban area of Langfang. It is 60 kilometers away from downtown Beijing and Tianjin and 25 kilometers away from Beijing Daxing International Airport. The whole area is within the radiation range of major projects of Coordinated Development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region.Langfang Municipal Government held a press conference on COVID-19 prevention and control on Saturday. According to Liu Zheng, head of the medical treatment expert group, Langfang has set up a personal file for each confirmed patient and provides real-time guidance for treatment according to the changes in their condition every day. Liu also mentioned that most of the patients in Langfang are mild. The main symptoms are fever, cough, dry throat, diarrhea, and asymptomatic infection. Patients with symptoms usually get better in two to three days. At the same time, Liu stressed that this round of epidemic in Hebei is highly contagious, and close contact is the main body of the disease.The information office of Langfang said at a press conference that the city has tightened its inspection and control policy on entering Beijing since 6am on March 10. All expressways in the city are restricting entry into Beijing unless it's necessary. As Hebei is close to Beijing, residents who live in Hebei but work in Beijing are encouraged to work from home. If they really need to go to Beijing, certificates from their work units, towns and villages where they live (street offices), and nucleic acid test certificates taken within 24 hours are required.On March 14, 120 medical workers from Tongzhou District, Beijing, rushed to Sanhe, Hebei Province, to assist the nucleic acid testing after receiving a request for support from local authorities.Global Times