Handcuffs Photo: CFP In 2021, 223 cases of sexual assault against children were reported, involving more than 569 victims, among which the proportion of boys was on the rise, a report published by a Chinese non-governmental organization revealed on Wednesday.The data are collected from the cases publicly reported by media outlets in 2021 including the cases disclosed by the official websites and authentication accounts of courts and procuratorates at all levels. In terms of the number of victims, 462 of the 569 children were girls, accounting for 81.20 percent; and 107 were boys, accounting for 18.80 percent. According to the report, the youngest victim was only two years old. And the age of perpetrators ranged from 12 to 89.Experts said the phenomenon of “polarization” in the age of sexual assault crime deserves attention. In addition to social factors and demographic composition, the causes of the crime, as well as punishment and assistance measures and governance methods are all areas that need to be studied. On the other hand, juvenile delinquency in recent years has mostly been involving those of a younger age and is usually carried out in groups. This is especially true with serious crimes such as serious injury and rape. Attaching great importance to the prevention of juvenile delinquency is the key to reducing sexual assault crimes.Among the cases of sexual assault on children exposed this year, the report said there were 17 cases of sexual assault on children through the Internet, including online and offline crimes (sexual assault after meeting a net-friend), accounting for 10.63 percent of the crimes committed by acquaintances and 7.62 percent of the total cases. According to statistics from some regional courts in recent years, nearly 30 percent of the cases of sexual assault on children were committed after they met children through online chatting tools. With the popularization of the Internet and mobile communication devices, the rate of sexual assault on children through the Internet is getting higher in 2021, and many cases even happened in the network space.The report also revealed that out of 223 cases, 105 were repeatedly committed by the same perpetrators, accounting for 47.09 percent. This includes multiple sexual assaults on the same child victim or multiple children.Although some people have never accepted any sexual assault education, from the overall recognition of sexual assault education, more than 90 percent of the respondents think it is necessary to conduct sex education and sexual assault education for minors, among which 72.74 percent think it is very necessary and 25.71 percent think it is necessary.In November 2021, the Ministry of Education issued the Guide for Life Safety and Health Education Curriculum Teaching Materials for Primary and Secondary Schools, which requires students to “learn the basic knowledge and skills of adolescent health care and improve the ability to prevent sexual harassment and assault.”Ahead of the upcoming two sessions in Beijing in March, how to better prevent sexual assault of minors has become a highlight of this year’s proposals. Zhang Baoyan, the founder of a website which helps kidnapped children return to their homes based in Northeast China’s Jilin Province and also a deputy to the National People's Congress, told the Global Times on Wednesday that cracking down on human trafficking is an important aspect of sexual assault prevention. “In fact, there is an intersection between abduction and sexual assault. Many girls have been sexually assaulted after being abducted, so we are saying that we should not only prevent children from being sexually assaulted, but also prevent children from being abducted and sold,” Zhang stressed.Hu Wei, a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, said on Wednesday that in real life, frequent sexual assault cases are not uncommon, and only a few cases are reported to the police for a variety of reasons, which also breeds soil for frequent sexual assault. “A blacklist system should be set up to strengthen supervision over those who have a record of sexual crimes and strictly restrict them from engaging in certain professions, such as being teachers, doctors or babysitters,” Hu said.