Yang Jiechi (1st L), a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the CPC Central Committee, meets with U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan (1st R) in Rome, Italy, March 14, 2022.Photo: XinhuaOn Monday, Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Director of the Office of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs Yang Jiechi met with US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan in Rome, Italy. They conducted candid, deep and constructive communication on China-US relations and international and regional issues of common concern. Yang said the implementation of the consensus between the two heads of state is the most important task for China-US relations. He stressed that the Taiwan question concerns China's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and expounded on China's solemn position on issues related to Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong, pointing out that these issues concern China's core interests and are China's internal affairs that allow no foreign interference. In addition, Yang also expounded on China's position on the Ukraine issue. Readouts of the White House before and after the talks both mentioned Ukraine issue and maintaining open lines of communication between the US and China.Some analysts believe that it is more likely that the US has proposed the meeting, because judging from the posture, it is the US that needs to ask China for help in the context of the Russia-Ukraine conflict.In any case, if the US really wants to make "ongoing efforts to maintain open lines of communication" between the two countries, it should at least show its sincerity first. However, Washington has taken some petty actions a day before the meeting, all related to Ukraine issue. For example, US media quoted "anonymous senior US officials" as saying that Russia had asked China for "military aid," including drones, after the Russia-Ukraine conflict escalated. Moreover, Sullivan on the same day claimed that there will "absolutely be consequences for large-scale sanctions evasion efforts or support to Russia to backfill them." Washington's intention to threaten Beijing is obvious. It is an old US diplomatic tactic to use disinformation and intimidation to secure a favorable position in negotiations. But China never buys it.These actions from the US also show that Washington is quite anxious about the Ukraine issue. It wants China to dance to its tune. What the US hopes for is to weave a global web to strangle Russia, making all countries part of this web without any "loophole." The US is the instigator of the Ukraine crisis; yet, it wants to exploit the whole world to expand its own strategic interests. This makes people wonder: Where does the US get its confidence from? Has it been dominating the world for so long that it thinks it even controls the lever of the Earth's rotation? If Washington wants to forcibly tie China-US relations to the Russia-Ukraine crisis, it is on the wrong track and will definitely be disappointed.The Russia-Ukraine crisis is worthy of talks, but not in this way. A Chinese saying goes, "Let he who tied the bell on the tiger's neck take it off." The problem that was created by the US cannot and should not be solved by China. Besides, China and the US should handle their relations well before they can better coordinate stances as the third parties. In other words, Washington should make practical moves to make China feel the US is a reliable major power. Last year, US leaders and senior officials have stated that the US has no intention to seek a new Cold War or change China's system, that the revitalization of US alliances is not anti-China, that the US does not support "Taiwan independence", and that it is not looking for conflict or confrontation with China. But all these are still no more than empty words. The US Congress recently passed an act that is politically manipulating the map of the island of Taiwan, creating "two Chinas" and "one China, one Taiwan." This was not only a blatant provocation of China's territorial integrity but also another proof that Washington betrays its promises. There are many other examples. In this circumstance, why does the US think that China should "help" it out?On the Ukraine issue, China has been independently making judgement in the spirit of objectivity and fairness and based on the merits of the matter itself. It has been playing a constructive role in facilitating peace talks. China has repeatedly called international community to jointly support Russia-Ukraine peace talks, achieve substantive results as soon as possible, and promote de-escalation of the situation. Such a responsible attitude will not budge, even slightly, under US pressure. During the meeting on Monday, Yang also stressed that the Chinese side firmly opposes the words and deeds that spread disinformation and distort China's stance. In terms of diplomacy, the US appears to be rather inconsistent now. The profound reason is Washington's shortsightedness. This has led the US into a quagmire when dealing with foreign relations. It can only solve the problems superficially, and it arrogantly believes the world should be at its service. As a result, it always fails to handle relations with other major powers and leaves a mess in regional issues. If the policy elites in Washington cannot change their minds, it will never find the keys to solve these problems. China has been open to keeping lines of communication with the US, and engaging in stabilizing and developing bilateral relations based on equality. A stable China-US relationship is not only conducive to the development of the two countries, but also conducive to maintaining a peaceful and stable international environment, and is conducive to effectively addressing global challenges. Under the current international situation, China and the US should strengthen dialogue and cooperation, properly manage differences, and avoid conflicts and confrontations. We look forward to seeing the US' true implementation of its commitments to China and meet China halfway.