Swiss Paralympic medalist Theo Gmur compete in the Beijing 2022 Winter ParalympicsPhoto: Courtesy of Theo Gmur"Chinatastic" is the word that Swiss Paralympic medalist Theo Gmur used to describe his trip in Beijing, which he said means a "mix of China and fantastic." In an interview on Friday, the 26-year-old skier told the Global Times that the Beijing 2022 Winter Paralympics is the "best game" in terms of the organization, and also shared how some of his childhood dreams have come true.Gmur claimed the bronze medal in the men's downhill standing event on March 5 in the Beijing Paralympics. In Pyeongchang 2018, he was a triple champion with gold medals in the giant slalom, super-G and downhill in the men's standing category as a Winter Paralympic debutant.It was the first time for the Swiss athlete to come to China and he said he "had a great time until today."In one selfie video Gmur posted on Instagram, he taught a Chinese security guard who he sees every morning at the checkpoint of gondola to speak "good luck with the race" in Swiss German.He joked that some volunteers in the Paralympic Village are like "minions" as they always wear the white protection gear which makes people can only see their eyes, but everyone was actually "very kind" and he felt very "well welcomed" by their service in the Village.Theo Gmur, a Para Alpine skier from Switzerland, takes picture withtwo staffers in the Paralympics Village in the Beijing 2022 Winter Paralympic Games.Photo: Courtesy of Theo GmurGmur competed in three events in Beijing 2022 and he won bronze in men's downhill standing. Before participating in the Paralympic Games, he sustained an injury on his left knee in December 2021.But the injury did not hold back the Para Alpine skier. "It just gave me motivation and strong strength to go out and work harder for the next games," he said.Speaking of the ski facilities in China's National Alpine Skiing Center in Yanqing district, Gmur said he was amazed by "what they built in the last seven years."He commented that China, as a "non-winter" country, did its best to organize the Games."It was really so well organized. With the organization part, it was the best game I have ever been so far," he said.However, the gradual warming of the weather in Beijing during last week was not the most ideal for the Paralympian, who joked that it was like "water skiing in the Caribbean Sea." But he told the Global Times that the weather condition did not have much influence on the Games. "Every athlete is dealing with the same temperature. I think we are doing a good job. And it's also good for the competitiveness," he said.Theo Gmur of Switzerland wins a bronze medal in the men's downhill standing event on March 5, 2022 in the Beijing Paralympics.Photo: Courtesy of Theo GmurBorn in Haute-Nendaz in southern Switzerland, Gmur started to learn skiing at age 3. In 2016, he entered Swiss Federal University in Magglingen to study sports, which he said truly helped him to grow as a human and as an athlete, too.At the age of 22, Gmur won the 2018 Credit Suisse Awards, a top sports prize in Switzerland, becoming the first Para alpine skier to claim the honor. He also claimed the overall World Cup crystal globe in his category."From a dream of skiing like the able-bodied, doing 'Olympic' ski races with ski poles as gates in the meadow in front of the house with my brother. Standing on the podium on the garden table, singing the Swiss anthem for all the neighbors. And also waking up in the middle of the night watch the Olympics. To decide that I aim to go to the Paralympics one day, skiing and representing my country," read one post he made on social media before he came to Beijing.The 26-year-old professional Para ­Alpine skier said he is ready to start off to his next season. "I have places at home for more golds, more globes," he said. "It's a dream of childhood to be a skier… I will try until the end."Another childhood dream is to "walk one time at the Bird's Nest," which comes from the "good memories" he had while watching the Beijing Summer Olympics with his friends and brother, he told the Global Times.Theo Gmur of Switzerland competes in the men's downhill standing Alpine skiing competition at the Beijing Winter Paralympic Games on March 5, 2022. Photo: ICThe Beijing 2022 Winter Paralympics' closing ceremony will be held on Sunday. Gmur said he will go there to "enjoy every moment until the end of this Games."The Swiss athlete used "­Chinatastic" - "­China" plus "fantastic" - to describe his trip to China."I will try to come back to China for sure, but as a tourist, not as a skier with all the stress we had for the last two weeks," he said, adding that his next plan is to visit the Great Wall.Gmur has hemiplegia due to an oedema he sustained when he was 2 years old. When asked about his understanding of the Paralympic spirit, he said it is "a mix of emotion, childhood dreams and the culture where everyone is at the same level.""As an athlete, as a Paralympian, we can do our best to just give some emotion back to the people who support and also give some dreams to the young generation," he said.