Poster of the ballet The Red Detachment of Women performed by the National Ballet of China (NBC) Photo: Courtedy of Yu Yun The National Ballet of China (NBC) will start a three-month nationwide spring ballet performance festival beginning on March 8. Audiences will enjoy the fusion of national ballet with Western classics, and the iconic ballet The Red Detachment of Women will be performed.It has become a tradition for the NBC to perform The Red Detachment of Women every year on March 8, Women's day. The immortal power of the Chinese classic can always bring people various feelings when they see it. In the upcoming national tour, audiences will also get to see performers from younger generations.The beginning of April will see one of the oldest and the most staged French romantic ballets, Giselle. It tells the tragic story of a simple country girl, named Giselle, who dies of a broken heart when she discovers her lover Albrecht is engaged to someone else. Returning to haunt him, she joins the ghostly ranks of the Wilis (abandoned brides who rise from the grave to prey on the men who wronged them). But finally, Giselle chooses to protect Albrecht with love and forgiveness.Also in April, a ballet concerning the Mogao Caves, also known as the Thousand Buddha Grottoes in Dunhuang, Northwest China's Gansu Province, will be played to reflect the selflessness and dedication of Chinese cultural relic workers, featuring glorious scenes from the wall drawings during the performance.Ballet has been performed in the hot dance variety show Dance Millennium, drawing high praise and attention from ballet lovers.May will see a performance of the ballet Crane's Soul, based on the true story of Xu Xiujuan, a girl who sacrificed her life to save a red-crowned crane, expressing the good wishes of harmonious coexistence between humans and nature.In addition, another ballet Century, which is a tribute to celebrate the founding of the Communist Party of China, will also be staged in May. The four chapters have themes of sky, mountain, ocean, and sun, saluting the Chinese soul.The last ballet performance will be Onegin at the end of May, based on the novel Eugene Onegin written by Alexander Pushkin as a reflection of Russian social life in the 1820s. The story depicts the awakening of the young generation of that era, and raises many important social issues.Adapted from the novel, the performance tells the story of the arrogant and cynical aristocratic youth Onegin, who doesn't know about true love and coldly rejects the courtship of the innocent country girl Dagiana. When the two meet again many years later, Dagiana has become a duchess and rejects Onegin's love for her.The performances will be on a tour in cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Tangshan, Guangzhou, Qingdao and Shenzhen.