A health worker conducts COVID-19 Rapid Antigen Test.File photo:XinhuaChina's National Health Commission on Friday announced that the general public will be able to use rapid antigen tests as a supplement to the standard nucleic acid testing to help battle the spread of COVID-19. Experts said it was part of the nation's adjustment of epidemic prevention measures amid the recent spread of the Omicron variant. In order to optimize virus detection, the country has decided to promote monitoring by using "antigen screening and nucleic acid diagnosis," the commission said. It also released an antigen test trial protocol on Friday to standardize the process.  According to the trial protocol, the groups who can use antigen testing include those who need to go to hospital with symptoms such as respiratory tract infections or fever, as well as people who are under quarantine observation.Jin Dongyan, a professor at the School of Biomedical Sciences at the University of Hong Kong, told the Global Times on Friday that the adjustment was made based on the features of the Omicron variant, which shows that China is adjusting its COVID-19 policy to be more scientific and targeted.  The transmission of Omicron seen in many Chinese cities recently requires early and rapid testing, and the antigen tests only take about 20 minutes to get results so they can identify positive cases at an early stage, Jin said. The traditional nucleic acid testing takes longer, and sometimes the positive cases may no longer have the ability to infect others before their results come out. Quarantine for these cases will only result in a waste of resources, Jin said. The Chinese mainland reported 1,100 locally transmitted COVID-19 infections on Friday, including local asymptomatic infections, the first time daily case numbers have exceeded 1,000 since the initial outbreak in Wuhan, Central China's Hubei Province.China has seen spikes in locally transmitted COVID-19 infections in recent days, of which about 50 percent are asymptomatic cases, and the demand for nucleic acid testing has been growing fast. The Omicron variant is highly contagious and hard to detect, resulting in hidden transmission.The Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council held a video meeting on Thursday afternoon to call for related departments to firmly curb the epidemic and avoid further expansion, while sticking to the "dynamic zero-COVID" policy."Compared with nucleic acid testing, antigen tests have the advantages of convenience, rapidity and low cost, and residents can easily do the tests at home," Lu Hongzhou, head of the Third People's Hospital of Shenzhen, told the Global Times on Friday. Lu noted that self-testing with antigen kits can help find infected people soon and reduce the exposure risk during nucleic acid testing to a certain extent.  Also, the majority of infectious cases can be detected by multiple antigen tests if they are conducted three or more times a week, according to Lu.  Jin said he and many health experts have called on the health authorities to adopt antigen tests for a long time, but he stressed that although antigen tests are much faster, they are still just a supplement to nucleic acid testing. "Nucleic acid testing is more sensitive than antigen tests, which means that antigen tests need a higher concentration of COVID-19 virus than nucleic acid testing to detect positive results," Yang Zhanqiu, a professor with the pathogen biology department at Wuhan University, told the Global Times on Friday.Nucleic acid tests will still be the basis for confirming COVID-19 infections, and antigen tests can be used as a complementary means of screening certain groups of the population, contributing to "early detection" capabilities, the commission explained in a notice released on Friday.  People can purchase antigen tests at pharmacies, online sales platforms and other channels, the trial protocol said.  Residents who test positive via antigen testing, regardless of whether they have respiratory tract or fever symptoms, should immediately report to their communities, and the communities should then contact the emergency center to transfer them to medical institutions for nucleic acid testing.Asymptomatic residents who test negative via antigen testing can be kept under close observation, and those residents with symptoms but negative results should seek nucleic acid testing, the trial protocol said.  Jin said those who deliberately conceal their positive reports or use a fake report should be subject to legal accountability.