On April 25, 2022, "The International Forum on People-to-People Exchange and Academic Cultural Season of Confucius Institute, Peking University," co-hosted by the Office of Confucius Institute, the Institute for Global Cooperation and Understanding (iGCU), and the Office of Global Communication was officially launched at the Moonlight Hall of the Overseas Exchange Center at Peking University. Prof. Wang Bo (Vice President of Peking University), Prof. Gamal Elshazly (Vice President of Cairo University, Egypt), Prof. Dorothy Kelly (Vice President of the University of Granada, Spain), Prof. Malcolm Butler (Vice President of the University of Sheffield, UK), Prof. Mona Khoury Kassbari (Vice President of Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel), Prof. Watanabe Yoshihiro (Vice President of Waseda University, Japan), Prof. Pasquale Mammone (President of the University of Artois, France), and Mr. Zhao Lingshan (Secretary General of Chinese International Education Foundation) attended the opening ceremony and delivered their remarks respectively. Prof. Yuan Ming (Professor at School of International Studies at Peking University) and Prof. Joel Bellassen (Former Inspector General of Chinese Language Teaching at the French Ministry of National Education) delivered keynote speeches.Other honorable guests who participated in the ceremony included: Ms. Zhang Jing (Deputy Chief of the office of cultural exchange and international studies, department of international cooperation and exchanges at the Ministry of Education), presidents of the Confucius Institutes of six universities, leaders and professors from the Office of Humanities and Social Sciences, the Institute for Global Cooperation and Understanding, the Office of Confucius Institute, the School of Archaeology and Museology, the School of Foreign Languages, the School of Chinese as a Second Language, the School of International Studies and the School of Arts, and nearly 40 students from Peking University. The opening ceremony was presided over by Prof. Jia Qingguo (former Dean of the School of International Studies and Director of iGCU, Peking University).

Scene of the opening ceremony

Prof. Jia Qingguo hosting the opening ceremony The theme of the forum is: "People-to-People Exchanges, Mutual Learning among Civilizations." Leading scholars and experts from seven prestigious universities participated in this grand event, and aimed to explore new approaches to promoting social and cultural exchanges between different civilizations, facilitating mutual understanding. Scholars and experts are from Peking University, Cairo University (Egypt), The University of Granada (Spain), The University of Sheffield (U.K.), The Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Israel), Waseda University (Japan), and The University of Artois (France).Prof. Wang Bo (Vice President of Peking University) stated in his opening speech that people-to-people exchanges are not only exchanges between people but also exchanges between civilizations, through which we could achieve mutual understanding and maintain the vigorous vitality of civilizations themselves. Ever since its establishment, Peking University has been committed to promoting and facilitating extensive and high-quality socio-cultural international exchanges as well as mutual learning among civilizations. By organizing a great variety of academic events which all had intended to contribute to the harmony of civilizations, Peking University has shown to the world that it is an institute that encourages and supports professional academic research in the field of Humanities and Social Sciences, strives to help to construct an open and inclusive international academic community while contributing to the development of human wisdom.

Prof. Wang Bo (Vice President of Peking University) delivering his opening speech Prof. Gamal Elshazly (Vice President of Cairo University, Egypt), Prof. Dorothy Kelly (Vice President of the University of Granada, Spain), Prof. Malcolm Butler (Vice President of the University of Sheffield, UK) all have shared their personal experience with China (or Chinese as a culture in general), their universities' previous cooperation with different universities in China, as well as the establishments of Confucius Institutes at their universities, in retrospect. They generally agreed that we are now living in a world filled with challenges. In order to better cope with these global challenges such as climate change, countries should work together and strengthen ties between one another. It is believed that the timing of when this forum is held is perfect. It can help promote people-to-people exchanges between different cultures and enable mutual understanding.

Prof. Gamal Elshazly (Vice President of Cairo University, Egypt) delivering his opening speech

Prof. Dorothy Kelly (Vice President of the University of Granada, Spain) delivering her opening speech

Prof. Malcolm Butler (Vice President of the University of Sheffield, UK) delivering his opening speechProf. Mona Khoury Kassbari (Vice President of Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel) introduced the progress made by the Hebrew University in the field of Humanities and further talked about the Hebrew University's academic cooperation with Peking University. She noted that both Chinese and Jewish cultures are rich in history, and in order to better understand each other's differences, it is essential to communicate.

Prof. Mona Khoury Kassbari (Vice President of Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel) delivering her opening speech Prof. Watanabe Yoshihiro (Vice President of Waseda University, Japan) shared his experience of conducting research on ancient Chinese history in his speech and further explained the achievements of Waseda University in the research of ancient Chinese history as well as Waseda University's several important academic projects with Peking University. Prof. Watanabe also mentioned that as COVID-19 has profoundly affected our daily lives, including our academic exchanges as well, Waseda University is now actively exploring new forms of academic exchanges and wishes to continue cooperating with Peking University to promote people-to-people exchanges between China and Japan.

Prof. Watanabe Yoshihiro (Vice President of Waseda University, Japan) delivering his opening speechProf. Pasquale Mammone (President of the University of Artois, France) said in his speech that China and France are old friends, with their relations based on exchanges and interactions over the past century. He noted that even before the 20th century, French writers like Voltaire had already been fascinated by Chinese culture, and the history of Sino-French cultural and academic exchanges was noticeably rich. He then introduced the scientific cooperation projects between the two countries in the 21st century. The University of Artois began the construction of its Confucius Institute in 2008, equipping it with missions to promote academic exchanges and play as a medium for disseminating Chinese culture in France.

Prof. Pasquale Mammone (President of the University of Artois, France) delivering his opening speech Mr. Zhao Lingshan (Secretary General of Chinese International Education Foundation) pointed out that living in this ever changing world, it is of significance that scholars would actively contribute to academic exchanges between different countries, work to facilitate the evolution of human wisdom, and eventually make changes. The Confucius Institute has not only opened a window for the World to catch a glimpse of China, but has also provided a platform for foreigners who wish to learn Chinese language or to comprehend the culture of China. No matter how the world changes, the goal of the Confucius Institute will remain intact. This forum will greatly enrich the academic connotation of Confucius Institutes and contribute to the construction of a community with a shared future for mankind.

Mr. Zhao Lingshan (Secretary General of Chinese International Education Foundation) delivering his opening speechSubsequently, Prof. Yuan Ming (Professor at School of International Studies at Peking University) and Prof. Joel Bellassen (Former Inspector General of Chinese Language Teaching at the French Ministry of National Education) delivered keynote speeches successively. Prof. Yuan Ming reviewed the development of the Yenching Academy in her speech. She shared the touching moments that she perceived when communicating with young scholars worldwide. She noted that during people-to-people exchanges, the distinctive characteristics of different civilizations would stand out brightly. Thus, social and cultural exchanges between civilizations can not only help to achieve mutual understanding, but would also contribute to the development of human wisdom. To comprehend Chinese culture, we Chinese must understand the world first. In similar logic, the world needs to better understand China too. The forum is of great significance, as it not only enables China to understand the world, but also the other way round.

Prof. Yuan Ming (Professor at School of International Studies at Peking University) delivering her keynote speech Prof. Bellassen praised and commended the initiative of holding this forum. He shared his days of studying at Peking University and talked about how he first engaged in Chinese education, as well as his stories of establishing the specialty of Chinese Language Teaching after returning to France. He pointed out that although misunderstandings may occur in cross-cultural exchanges, it is still of great necessity to objectively observe both our similarities and differences. Prof. Bellassen reckoned that once we learn our lessons from the developmental history of different cultures, we can improve our understanding of different civilizations.

Prof. Joel Bellassen (Former Inspector General of Chinese Language Teaching at the French Ministry of National Education) delivering his keynote speechAt the end of the opening ceremony, Prof. Wang Bo, Prof. Jia Qingguo, Mr. Zhao Lingshan, and Ms. Zhang Jing took the stage and announced the official launch of "The International Forum on People-to-People Exchange and Academic Cultural Season of Confucius Institute, Peking University".

Leaders and Guests announce the official launch of the forum The first sub-forum took place on the same day, themed "A Mosaic of Ancient Eurasia: New Advances in Eurasian Archaeology". The sub-forum was co-hosted by the Office of Confucius Institute, the Institute for Global Cooperation and Understanding, the School of Archaeology and Museology at Peking University, the Confucius Institute at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Israel), and the Confucius Institute at the University of Granada. Prof. Gideon Shelach-Lavi (Professor at the Department of Asian Studies, the Hebrew University), Dr. Ido Wachtel (Postdoctoral Fellow at the Martin Buber Society of Fellows, the Hebrew University), Prof. Zhang Jianwei (Professor at the School of Archaeology and Museology, Peking University), Prof. Juan Manuel Jiménez Arenas (Professor at the Department of Prehistory and Archaeology, Faculty of Filosophy, Language and Literature, University of Granada), Prof. Ning Chao (Researcher at the School of Archaeology and Museology, Peking University), Prof. Carlos Rodríguez-Rellán (Professor at the Department of Prehistory and Archaeology, Faculty of Filosophy, Language and Literature, University of Granada) participated in the event and delivered keynote speeches respectively. They shared their latest progresses in archaeology, covering the construction of the Great Wall, the evolution of agricultural societies, architectural forms, gene tracing, hominid settlements, and prehistoric production and consumption, and conducted in-depth exchanges and prospects for future cooperation and research.