Residents take nucleic acid tests at a testing spot in Dongcheng district in Beijing on March 23. Photo: VCGTwo batches of clothes imported from overseas have tested positive for COVID-19 in Beijing, authorities said at a press conference on Thursday. Health officials urged children and the elderly to get vaccinated as soon as possible, as 25 cases have been reported in the past five days in the capital city that involved four separate transmission chains. Seven new cases were reported on Thursday, and all of them were found within personnel who are already put under epidemic control. Pang Xinghuo, deputy director of the Beijing Center for Disease Prevention and Control, said that 25 cases have been found since Sunday, involving four separate transmission chains, with three of them coming from other provinces and one related to the South Korean-style clothing store. Of the 25 cases, 22 are related to the store which is located in the city's Wangjing, a residential and commercial area that accommodate a large number of South Korean nationals. The infected individuals include the store's staff members, their families and customers. Epidemiological report showed that the earliest signs of infection were found on April 1, and the virus has thus evolved three generations in the past six days, indicating the fast transmission speed and strong infectivity of the virus. Meanwhile, two batches of clothes imported from overseas have tested positive for COVID-19 in Beijing, the local health commission said on Thursday. Related positive cases and the contaminated goods have been put under control. Pang noted that multiple places in China have recently found imported goods or international mails testing positive for coronavirus that further led to infection among humans. Pang reminded residents to be cautious when buying imported goods from countries where COVID-19 risks are high, and suggested that the goods should be disinfected and stored under room temperature for seven to 14 days before being opened.  Global Times