Workers walk over London Bridge towards the City of London financial district during the morning rush hour in London on January 24, 2022. Photo: VCG Compared with China's dynamic zero-COVID policy, the UK's handling of COVID-19 has been an unmitigated disaster that resulted in a heavy cost of human lives, said a UK-based scholar, noting that there's enough objective evidence that China's anti-epidemic approach has been good for its economy and social stability. "The British government's response to COVID has been a disaster. The issue is not that it tried to 'live with COVID' or move life on, but the fact that it decided simply pretending the pandemic doesn't exist is a substitute for a coherent strategy in the public interest," Tom Fowdy, a British political and international relations analyst, told the Global Times. As mask requirements have been dropped and free mass testing is a thing of the past, people can go abroad for holidays without ordering tests or filling out lengthy forms, for many in the UK, "the pandemic may as well be over," the AP reported on Monday. While that sense of freedom is widespread, the infections continued soaring in the UK in March, driven by the milder but more transmissible Omicron BA.2 variant, the report said. "People have continued to die whilst the government proclaims 'freedom,'" Fowdy said. In contrast, China has maintained its dynamic zero-COVID policy as it fights Omicron, particularly in cities like Shanghai. In the eyes of the foreign expert, the past two years have provided enough objective evidence that China's anti-epidemic approach has been very good for its economy, allowing growth and stability to be sustained without having to inject trillions worth of new debt and stimulus as economies in the West have done."This has allowed China's trade to ride the storm and keep booming, offsetting Western hopes that it would cause supply chains to shift elsewhere," he said. However, China's COVID policy has been questioned, sometimes criticized by foreign media for being "too strict," or "ignoring human rights." Some even hyped the "over-simplified' notion that "Omicron is just a big flu," which recently served as validation for some to prompt China to ease its restrictions. "From day one, the pandemic has been politicized against China in every single domain possible," Fowdy said, noting that it has been weaponized comprehensively in a bid to discredit China's political system. When China has in fact succeeded, it has either been dismissed or treated with cynicism.Commenting on the Western countries' approach to deal with COVID-19 by adopting the "lie flat'' philosophy - relying on vaccination alone without implementing other preventive measures, Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, told reporters on Tuesday said it's a helpless choice, which has caused a significant spike in infections and deaths in some countries.