A medical worker takes a swab sample from a woman for nucleic acid test in Changning District of east China's Shanghai, April 1, 2022. Shanghai has launched a nucleic acid testing campaign in areas west of the Huangpu River from Friday amid the second phase of the city's closed-off management.Photo:XinhuaThe proportion of positive infections among people at risk has declined in the Omicron variant hard-hit Shanghai where there are 16 patients in severe conditions at present, Shanghai health authorities announced on Sunday. Among the severe patients who are receiving medical treatment, the youngest person is 33 years old and the rest are aged above 70. It is noteworthy that among the 16 patients, only one has been fully vaccinated and none of the rest had taken a jab due to their severe underlying medical conditions.Shanghai’s new daily tally remained high with 3,238 confirmed cases and 21,582 asymptomatic infections being registered on Saturday. However, since 1,177 confirmed cases were previous reported as asymptomatic cases, the actual number of newly confirmed cases was 2,061, according to the local health authority. Besides, with only 307 confirmed cases and 415 asymptomatic infections being found among people at high risk, the proportion of positive infections among high-risk groups has decreased, Wu Jinglei, director of Shanghai Municipal Health Commission, said during a press briefing on Sunday, adding that newly found positive infections remained high but relatively stable overall. Shanghai will adhere to the dynamic zero-case strategy and spare no efforts in eliminating infections in communities through mass nucleic acid testing supplemented by antigen screening in key areas, trying to achieve the zero cases goal in the shortest time, Wu said. Wu detailed the conditions of the 33-year-old patient who has severe autoimmune diseases and suffered from an obvious immune function decline. According to Wu, the patient relies on hemodialysis since the patient’s kidneys do not function well. When the patient was hospitalized, the patient had suffered from lesion in the lungs and pericardial effusion. At present, the patient’s lungs conditions have improved after anti-virus treatments together with traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and the underlying diseases and autoimmune diseases are being treated. Apart from the patient, all the other patients have severe underlying diseases including diabetes, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, malignant tumors, pulmonary embolism or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. For these patients, the health authority has allocated more medical resources to treat them according to the principle of "one person, one plan" with multidisciplinary consultation and joint treatment being carried out to target their severe underlying diseases in particular. Pneumonia caused by the COVID-19 virus is being treated with a combination of micro-molecular medicines and TCM, to which increased oxygen supply, or ventilators and ECMO may be added as a complementary advantage to speed up the recovery process. Since these patients of senior ages are not vaccinated, Wu urged the local elderly to get vaccinated as soon as possible after the lockdown being lifted. As of Friday, nearly 3.6 million Shanghai residents aged 60 or above have completed their vaccination program, accounting for 62 percent of the elderly population, noted Wu. Wu noted that the Omicron variant poses great hazards to the elderly, especially those who have not been vaccinated and have chronic underlying diseases. Despite the fact that vaccination does not completely stop the transmission of the virus, it is highly effective in preventing severe illness and death. In general, people with chronic diseases who take medicines regularly and are not experiencing an acute episode, or whose conditions are well controlled and stable, can be vaccinated, experts said.According to Wu, a total of 373 confirmed patients had been discharged from hospitals and 10,337 asymptomatic infections were released from centralized medical observation venues as of Saturday. They returned to their residence and their health condition will continue to be monitored. Global Times