Pictured is a warehouse for vegetables in Fengxian district, Shanghai with a storage capacity of 1,200 tons of vegetables. Photo: VCGShanghai has vowed to assure the supply of daily necessities to all its 25 million people by solving the "last 100-meter" problem on Thursday.  With over 20,000 local new infections, including 322 confirmed cases and 19,660 asymptomatic carriers recorded on Wednesday, Shanghai sees no sign of easing its lockdown and the supply of foods and daily necessities has become a priority for the public. At the most critical stage of Shanghai's battle against Omicron, the local authorities are sparing no effort to insist on epidemic prevention and control as well as assure the supply of daily necessities at the same time, Chen Tong, deputy mayor of Shanghai Municipal People's Government said during a press conference on Thursday. According to Chen, the reserve and storage of grains, cooking oil and meat are sufficient in the city and the supply of goods from outside Shanghai such as vegetables and meat can be transported to the city at any time. However, due to the epidemic prevention and control policies, the supermarkets and wet markets have not resumed operation and the terminal distribution capacity of e-commerce platforms has dropped apparently, which has led to the problem that materials have failed to be sent to residents.To tackle this problem, material supplies from supermarkets and e-commerce platforms will be distributed to residents through communities and property management companies in the form of food packages, Chen said. Besides, the authority will work out a white list of daily necessities suppliers including wholesale markets, distribution centers, e-commerce warehouses, central kitchens which will be freed from lockdown and can implement strict epidemic prevention and control measures to assure the supply of materials. Couriers and takeaway riders who are in lockdown will be allowed to return to their positions and material supply companies will be encouraged to reallocate resources of personnel across the country. Meanwhile, the authority will spare no effort to crack down on violations related to prices. A total of 155 cases of price violations have been dealt with as of press time. The city will also establish an emergency supply mechanism for the needs of special groups such as the elderly, mothers and their infants and disabled people, ensuring that they can ask for help via hotlines for daily necessities. The authorities assured that products for infants such as formula powders have been listed as a key guaranteed priority item, so that the allocation, transportation and distribution of which will be secured and given priority to. Besides, Chen assured the public that the materials donated by other provinces are treasured and the authorities have worked out management regulations for the materials and established special work groups and specific personnel to receive, allocate and distribute the materials. Global Times