A medical worker takes a swab sample from a resident for nucleic acid test at a testing site in Chaoyang District, Beijing, capital of China, April 25, 2022. Starting from Monday, people who live and work in the Chaoyang District have to take nucleic acid test every two days till April 29 to curb the recent resurgence of COVID-19 here. (Xinhua）Beijing authority ordered officials to suspend sports events and extracurricular sports training. Many public venues were also closed, including the National Center for the Performance Arts (NCPA) after the capital saw a COVID-19 flare-up in recent days.The NCPA, located in the citys Xicheng district, said on its WeChat account that it will be closed from Tuesday to Saturday. Several other public places in Chaoyang district, where most of the cases were detected, also announced to close temporarily.Beijing Municipal Bureau of Sports ordered on Tuesday to suspend all sports events, extracurricular sports training activities from Tuesday to Saturday. It also asked sports venues to limit the number of visitors to avoid large scale gathering, and to test some of their employees at least once a week. The bureau also warned sports venues to disinfect fitness equipment, and warned them against buying commodities from countries and places where the virus is rife. Chaoyang gymnasium, the Chaoyang district library announced they will be closed from Tuesday, the re-opening dates remain to be decided.Beijings Happy Valley, an entertainment theme park located in Chaoyang district, announced it will close one hour and a half earlier than before since Tuesday.The Global Times also learned from several gyms in Chaoyang district that they will remain open but have just cancelled group classes.Beijing People's Art Theatre in Dongcheng district said it cancelled all the performance scheduled between Tuesday and Saturday. The Yonghegong Lama Temple in Dongcheng also announced it will close from Wednesday, reopening date remains to be decided.Beijing reported 32 new cases for Monday, along with one silent carrier. This has brought Beijings total tally to 103 since Friday.The city's most populous district of Chaoyang began testing residents and those who work there on Monday. Officials announced late on Monday that the citys mass COVID-19 testing campaign will be expanded to another 10 districts and one economic development area, covering nearly 90 percent of its population, from Tuesday to Saturday.Global Times