President Xi Jinping on Monday visited Renmin University of China in Beijing, ahead of China's Youth Day which falls on May 4. During the visit, Xi went to an intelligent classroom for ideological-political courses to learn about the reform and innovation of ideological-political education. Look at the pictures below to learn more about President Xi's visits to universities ahead of China's Youth Day in recent years. 

President Xi Jinping visits Renmin University of China in Beijing on April 25, 2022, ahead of China's Youth Day. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping visits Renmin University of China in Beijing on April 25, 2022, ahead of China's Youth Day which falls on May 4. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping visits a special exhibition celebrating the university's anniversary at the Academy of Arts and Design at Tsinghua University in Beijing on April 19, 2021. Xi visited Tsinghua University ahead of its 110th anniversary. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping talks with teachers and students while visiting a laboratory on imaging and intelligence at Tsinghua University in Beijing on April 19, 2021. Xi visited Tsinghua University ahead of its 110th anniversary. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping waves to faculty members and students before he leaves Tsinghua University in Beijing on April 19, 2021. Xi visited Tsinghua University ahead of its 110th anniversary. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping visits Xi'an Jiaotong University in Xi'an, capital of Northwest China's Shaanxi Province, on April 22, 2020. Xi inspected Xi'an during his trip to Shaanxi on April 22. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping visits some senior professionals and representatives of young and middle-aged faculty members of Peking University (PKU) at PKU campus in Beijing on May 2, 2018. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping joins a group of Chinese and foreign students at the School of Marxism of Peking University (PKU) in Beijing on May 2, 2018. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping shakes hands with faculty members and students while inspecting China University of Political Science and Law in Beijing on May 3, 2017. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping waves to faculty members and students while inspecting China University of Political Science and Law in Beijing on May 3, 2017. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping attends a session of youth league activity with students of Civil, Commercial and Economic Law School while inspecting China University of Political Science and Law in Beijing on May 3, 2017. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping attends a campus poetry recital marking the 95th anniversary of the May 4th Movement of 1919 at Peking University (PKU) in Beijing on May 4, 2014. Photo: Xinhua 

President Xi Jinping talks with faculty members and students while attending a campus poetry recital marking the 95th anniversary of the May 4th Movement of 1919 at Peking University (PKU) in Beijing on May 4, 2014. Photo: Xinhua