China Canada Photo: VCG Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi called on Canada to respect China's interests, avoid placing fresh obstacles on bilateral relations, and warned that if the Taiwan question cannot be handled properly, China-Canada relations will suffer severely.People of China and Canada have had long-standing friendly relations, and Canada was one of the first Western countries to establish diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China, but China-Canada relations suffered a serious setback due to the Meng Wanzhou incident in recent years. The US was using the incident as coercion to suppress Chinese high-tech companies, a shameful act that the world could see clearly, Wang said in a phone call with his Canadian Foreign Minister Melanie Joly on Tuesday. After being detained for more than 1,000 days, Meng finally reunited with her family and was freed from Canada in September last year, with the help of sustained efforts by the Chinese government and support from the Chinese public.Wang said that China has always viewed and handled China-Canada relation from a strategic and long-term perspective but the status quo of bilateral relations is not in the interests of both countries. Wang told Joly that no country should act as the paws of the tiger and promote this kind of unilateral bullying. Wang added that he hoped Canada to face up to the problem and meet the Chinese side halfway.Wang noted that China and Canada have no historical entanglement, nor real conflict of interests. He hoped Canada could look at China positively and objectively and pursue a pragmatic policy toward China. On issues concerning China's core interests, Canada should adopt a correct attitude and position, and avoid placing fresh obstacles on China-Canada relations, Wang noted. The one China principle is the political foundation of China-Canada relations. If the Taiwan question cannot be handled properly, China-Canada relations will suffer fundamentally, Wang warned. Wang told Joly that he hoped Canada could work with China to eliminate external interference and overcome difficulties, upholding an independent position for healthy, stable and sustainable ties. Joly admitted that Canada-China relations are at a difficult stage and willing to bring the bilateral ties back on the right track and build a more resilient bilateral relationship with honest and mutual respect and forward-looking spirit. Wang and Joly also had exchanges on the Ukraine crisis. Though facing difficulties, as long as the negotiations go on, there is a possibility of a ceasefire and hope for peace, Wang said. Global Times