Russian President Vladimir Putin chairs a meeting with members of the Security Council via teleconference call at the Novo-Ogaryovo state residence outside Moscow, Russia on April 7, 2022. Photo: AFPNearly 50 days have passed since the Russia-Ukraine conflict broke out on February 24. The two countries carried out rounds of talks for a ceasefire, but the West has been driving a wedge. The Western propaganda machine has made it harder for the Russia-Ukraine talks by pouring gas on the fire while putting all the blame on Russia. The West's distortion of the facts has also entered a new stage of making it personal by scapegoating Russian President Vladimir Putin. In New York Times columnist Thomas L. Friedman's latest article entitled "How Do We Deal With a Superpower Led by a War Criminal?" , Putin is described as the culprit of problems between Russia and the West. Friedman believes Putin has gone from a "bad boy" who tested the limits of the West to a "war criminal." As the US elites represented by Friedman distort the truth and fool the public, they should reflect on their irresponsible remarks and ask themselves: How many civilians have lost their lives in the numerous wars launched by the US? Who should be the biggest war criminal in the world? How could the world have an effective UN with the US, a permanent member of the Security Council which seeks hegemony and wantonly bullies others for its own interests? How could the world have any effective global initiative to collaborate to combat problems when the most powerful country cares only about itself and wreaks havoc? How could we enjoy real human rights, freedom and democracy when the strongest country on the planet is the biggest bully and self-proclaimed guardian of justice? American elites like Friedman deliberately ignore the core of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, attempting to make Russia the only one accountable. The US describes the conflict as Russia's "unprovoked invasion," "indiscriminate crushing of cities" and "mass killings of Ukrainian civilians," which are all included in Friedman's article.  Friedman also suggested that solving the Putin problem will probably solve the Ukraine crisis. American elites believe if there is political turmoil within Russia and even chaos due to the assassination of Putin, the situation would become better, Lü Xiang, a research fellow at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told the Global Times.Friedman didn't hide his intent against Putin. He proposed "three pillars" for Ukraine and NATO's "effective strategic counterstrategy." The first is to support Ukrainian people's talk with Russians and also support them with the best weaponry and training. The second is to propagate that the world is at war with Putin rather than with the Russian people. The third is to end importing oil that is Putin's main source of income. "The hope is that the three together would set in motion forces inside Russia that would topple Putin from power," Friedman wrote, saying it is "a high-risk, high-reward proposition.""Friedman represents the American elites' current perception of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. They interpret the situation with hubris based on a feigned ignorance that is worse than true ignorance," Lü said. It is no secret that the US wants to see Russia collapse. According to Lü, US information operations against Russia are to promote certain information - or disinformation, to be exact - while blocking unfavorable information. "They are now blocking the truth. They conceal the US' long-term contradictions with Russia, the US' long-standing penetration into Russia and US-led NATO's constant eastward expansion. Opinion leaders like Friedman don't mention these aspects, but they are fully aware of them," Lü noted. It is despicable to hold Putin or, in other words, a head of state accountable, for all that goes bad and then wish a domestic crisis or mutiny to topple the leader. Lü believes such an idea will badly affect the public, making people believe they are standing out for the so-called democracy and justice, but actually are fighting for a war fanned by the US and American politicians' selfish interests. "Friedman and his like have become the unprincipled vanguard of the US' public opinion war," Lü said.