Photo taken on April 3, 2022 shows a view of the makeshift hospital at the China Flower Expo park in Shanghai. The makeshift hospital at the China Flower Expo park opened on Monday, receiving the first batch of 1,300 mild cases and asymptomatic carriers. Photo: XinhuaShanghai has been making efforts to convert more venues into makeshift hospitals amid the rising COVID-19 cases during this wave of Omicron outbreak, as the city continued to register a record daily tally of new COVID-19 infections - over 17,000 positive cases.The epidemic situation remains grim and complicated, the local authorities said at Wednesday's press briefing. The city registered 311 local confirmed cases and 16,766 local asymptomatic infections on Tuesday, the authorities said on Wednesday.Based on the incomplete statistics, at least 79,600 beds have been established to meet the rising case numbers. The National Exhibition and Convention Center is under construction to be converted into a makeshift hospital with a planned capacity of 40,000 beds. It is expected to become the biggest hospital of such kind to receive COVID-19-infected residents with mild and asymptomatic cases.Over 10 designated hospitals and makeshift hospitals have so far been used in Shanghai, with several medical groups dispatched, according to local authorities. In Shanghai's Lingang area, the makeshift hospital is expected to have 13,600 beds, and it received the first batch of mild and asymptomatic local cases on Tuesday night. As of 8 am Wednesday, the makeshift hospital has received 680 positive cases.This region is jointly managed by three medical teams from Shanghai, East China's Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces.  The Shanghai medical team is composed of 206 medical and working staff of Huashan Hospital, and is responsible for internal basic management, according to media reports.Shanghai New International Expo Centre has also been renovated into a makeshift hospital which can provide services for nearly 15,000 COVID-19 patients. Shanghai World Expo Exhibition & Convention Centre also has over 7,000 beds after being converted into a makeshift hospital.The makeshift hospital at China Flower Expo park on Shanghai's Chongming Island also opened on Monday, which has 2,700 beds.