Photo: VCGThe woman who was claimed to be "locked in an iron cage" in Northwest China's Shaanxi Province, was victim of human trafficking and suffers from schizophrenia, according to an investigation report released by the local authorities on Wednesday. However, no signs have been found that suggest she might have been abused and the "iron cage" shown in the images is in fact the trunk of a tricycle that was used to pick up children from school. A total of 13 officials have been punished for violating rules and laws in the case. The report said that the case has exposed loopholes in local's grass-root social governance, special group care and public service management. It also revealed the incompetence of some government officials.  The woman, surnamed Tao and known on internet as "Xiaoyu" was living with a man surnamed Li, 48 years old. He often shared his life with Tao on the short video platform Kuaishou.According to the joint investigation by the local police, civil affairs and health departments, Tao's identity was confirmed by her relatives as well as by DNA test of Tao and her father. Born in 1983 in Foping county in Shaanxi, Tao began to show mental disorders and confused speech in 2002. She was treated at a psychiatric hospital that year and was taking long-term medicines to control her condition. She went missing twice in August 2010. A month later, she was spotted by a woman surnamed Wu, whose sister contacted Li's family. She offered to give Tao to Li as his wife in exchange for 10,000 yuan ($ 1,570). Tao was brought to Li's home and lived with him since. Wu and her sister were detained for human trafficking on March 10, while the accusations against Li, of buying trafficked women, have expired. As to the "physical abuses" suffered by Tao claimed by an online tip, the police launched a thorough investigation of the village, the sites where she was allegedly mistreated, and performed a physical examination of the woman. The cave "prison" where Tao was "confined" was an earthen kiln on a mountain where they live and on-site visits found no trace of fences, doors, and windows being installed. Villagers also said that as Tao could not take care of herself due to her mental disability,  Li looked after her and did not see him abusing the woman. Physical exams by two hospitals and one expert team conducted in March also determined that there were no scars or bruises on her skin, signs of old fracture healing or other bone abnormalities. Tao gave birth to a boy in 2012 and a girl in 2014. However, the girl was sent away as she was unable to raise her.Tao was sent to a medical institution in Shanghai to examine her mental condition during the investigation, which suggested that she suffers from schizophrenia. Tao is now receiving treatment at a specialized mental health institution where special personnel will take care of her son.