Beijing reports four newly confirmed COVID-19 cases and 10 silent coronavirus carriers on Friday. Photo:VCG Beijing's COVID-19 tally soared to 70 in four days involving eight districts, but authorities said initial epidemiological studies showed the transmission chains of those COVID-19 cases are clear. The daily new cases reported on Monday were 29. Since Friday, Beijing's COVID-19 tally soared to 70, involving eight districts, with Chaoyang, where most cases were found, recording 46 cases. Initial epidemiological studies of the cases showed the transmission chain is basically clear, Pang Xinghuo, deputy director of the Beijing municipal center for disease prevention and control, said at Monday's press conference. But at the same time, authorities stressed risks remain, and urged efforts to fight against the epidemic in case it escalates due to multiple risks brought by people coming from outside of the capital and increasing population flow as May Day holidays approach. Two cluster infections relating to dining were discovered, which center at one restaurant in Fangshan district and another in Chaoyang district, and 10 and five infected people were detected, respectively.Previously discovered clustered outbreaks in Beijing were related to a school and interior decoration workers and a tour group. On the first day of mass nucleic acid testing that was rolled out in Chaoyang district on Monday, more than 3.06 million people had already received tests as of Monday afternoon at 4 pm, at 1,301 nucleic acid testing points.As a move to escalate epidemic measures, Chaoyang district on Monday put an area in its southeastern part under strict management, several blocks away from the central business district. All residents within the area are required to stay in the zone. Except hospitals and markets, all other businesses suspended operations. As of Monday afternoon, a total of 2,116 residents were classified as close contacts, and pandemic preventive measures were put in place at the locations where they visited, according to Yang Beibei from the Chaoyang district government. The COVID-19 risk levels of five more communities in Beijing were raised to medium on Monday, meaning there are currently six communities in Beijing with medium-level risk and one with high-level risk. Global Times