Zhang Jun, the permanent representative of China to the UN, speaks during a press conference at the UN headquarters in New York, the United States, May 3, 2021.Photo:XinhuaIt is ridiculous and unreasonable that the US put containing China on its task list at the United Nations, said Zhang Jun, the permanent representative of China to the UN, after US' commission to the UN boasted countering China's efforts to expand influence in the UN system as the commission's achievements. The US Mission to the UN released a document named "Fact sheet: Restoring America's Leadership at the United Nations in President Biden's First Year" on its website on Thursday. The document made groundless accusations against China.  China's contribution to world peace and development, its support to the UN, and its assistance to other countries have been witnessed by all. What China pursues is win-win cooperation, not monopoly; equality, not bullying; openness and inclusiveness, not division; peaceful coexistence, not confrontation, Zhang said. China stands on the side of the trend of the times and the vast majority of countries. It is a force for justice, progress and cooperation. Some people always view China from a negative perspective or even suppress China's role and influence. This narrow and dark mindset is a concrete manifestation of the Cold War mentality and a huge threat to today's world, the ambassador said.China doesn't oppose other countries to play a role in global affairs, but the role should be positive, responsible and constructive, Zhang said. China doesn't need the so-called leadership that leads the world to chaos and confrontations, that contains other countries' development and creates trouble for the global economy, that wields the unilateral sanctions and cause the suffering of people of other countries, and that does nothing in the pandemic -- sitting and witnessing the deaths of tens of thousands of its people.In the fact sheet, the US boasted it pushed 18 countries to pay attention to the human rights situation in China's Xinjiang, which constitutes another example of "You can never wake those who pretend to be asleep," said Ambassador Zhang. The reality is Xinjiang maintains prosperity and stability and the lives of Chinese people are improving day by day. The US should not forget that at the UN Human Rights Council and the Third Committee of the UN General Assembly, close to 100 countries spoke out in support of China's position on Xinjiang, and opposed politically motivated attacks and disinformation against China.Cooperation among major countries bears on the future of the UN. In the past year, the international community failed to unite on many occasions in the face of major challenges, most notably because of the interference by unilateralism and bloc politics. The US claimed to be back at the UN. However, instead of focusing on promoting international cooperation, it is obsessed with ideological confrontation and suppressing the role of China and other countries. This has seriously undermined the solidarity and mutual trust among member states and severely restricted the UN from playing its due role.Zhang said people around the world have clear eyes, and dark clouds will not hide the sunshine. No matter what others might say, China will confidently and firmly follow the right path forward. "We will remain a builder of world peace, a contributor to global development, and a defender of the international order. We will continue to contribute our wisdom and strength to build a better world," the diplomat said.