00Before the Chinese Year of the Tiger begins at the start of February, the Global Times (GT) Shanghai newsroom interviewed 14 foreign diplomats in Shanghai to ask them about their knowledge of the Year of the Tiger and recount their unforgettable experiences from 2021, the Year of the Ox.The participants of the interview include the Consuls General (CG) from Fiji, Indonesia, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, Slovakia, South Korea, Sweden, the UAE and the UK, as well as the acting Consul General from Switzerland and deputy Consuls General from Brazil and Mexico.All diplomats extended warm festive greetings and best wishes to readers of the Global Times and all Chinese people, noting the tiger's symbolic spirits of strength, courage, bravery and confidence are going to be important qualities as the world continues to manage the impacts and challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic.Chris Wood, the British CG sent an interview message from his home quarantine after just arriving back from the UK. He said, "it is a reminder of the ongoing challenges that we face around the world in tackling COVID, but it is also important to say that the UK and China enjoy a very strong and collaborative relationship on health issues and tackling global health problems."Deny Wachyudi Kurnia, CG of Indonesia said that the global pandemic has made people more creative and open-minded to opportunities and offer more contributions to their surroundings. "I'm hopeful in the subsequent year our life will be much better," he added.With the 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games quickly approaching, many diplomats also sent their best wishes for the Winter Games to be held in China.Lise Nordgaard, CG of Norway was proud to announce that Norway has sent a huge delegation to the Beijing 2022 Games. "I will watch the live broadcast from Beijing together with my family here in Shanghai, and we expect to win lots of medals, preferably the gold ones. So let's wish both Chinese and Norwegian athletes good luck. May the best athletes win."  Besides the Beijing 2022 Games, Yok Yee Chan, CG of Fiji, also looks forward to a successful Asian Games in Hangzhou, East China's Zhejiang Province in September. 

Graphics: GTImportant AnniversariesBoth 2021 and 2022 mark important anniversaries between China and international partners. Kim Seung-ho, CG of South Korea said that 2022 marks the 30th anniversary of South Korea-China diplomatic relations. Peoples of the two countries have met half way in the past 30 years to yield brilliant achievements. As the second 30 years start, it's hoped that hand in hand, heart by heart, together we can embrace an even better future, he  added.Chris Wood looks forward to strengthening the UK-China relationship as 2022 marks 50 years of ambassadorial relations between the two countries. "We are committed to a deeper, more resilient and vibrant partnership with China, one of the world's fastest growing economies. Indeed, our bilateral trade relationship has been hugely important to us over the past 10 years. Our exports to China have increased four times faster than exports to the rest of the world. We have high ambitions for our trade and investment partnerships with China and look forward to increasing trade and investment flows and improving market access. Climate change was one of the key topics of 2021 and that will continue into 2022 and beyond."Shuichi Akamatsu, Ambassador and CG of Japan, said one of the most striking events of last year — the Year of the Ox — for him, was his arrival in Shanghai. He was very happy to be posted in China for the third time after an interval of 15 years."It's been an unforgettable year since I unexpectedly came to Shanghai, such a charming city, and I have been blessed with friendly ties. This year, the Year of the Tiger, is an important year: it is the 50th anniversary of the normalization of diplomatic relations between Japan and China. With the 50th anniversary as an opportunity, I would like to promote exchanges between Japan and China with a tiger-like momentum."Carlos Valera, Deputy CG of Mexico, shared that he was born in the Year of the Tiger, so personally it will be really special for him to spend this year in China. "In the Year of the Ox, despite the COVID-19 pandemic, our consulate continued promoting Mexican products in the market of the Yangtze River Delta region. We carried out various events such as food tasting, and what struck me the most is the great and growing interest of Chinese consumers in our culture, gastronomy and in our products like coffee, beer, tequila, chia seeds, pecan nuts, honey, and avocados."The year 2022 marks the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Mexico and China. "In coordination with our embassy in Beijing and our consulates in Hong Kong and Guangzhou we want to bring more Mexico to China, especially to the Yangtze River Delta region through a number of commercial and cultural events."Lise Nordgaard mentioned that 2021 marks the 20th anniversary of the sister city agreement between Shanghai and Oslo. The two cities celebrated their beautiful friendship with the joint exhibition of children's painting both in Oslo and Shanghai under the theme "Imagining the Future." Nordgaard hopes the friendship can last another 20 years and beyond.Marie-Claire Swärd Capra, CG of Sweden said that during the Year of the Ox, the Swedish Consulate General in Shanghai has been working a lot and has been focusing very much on sustainability."I want to mention to you a couple of events that we have organized in conjunction with the Swedish National Day in June. We were very happy to have more than 20 Swedish companies that came and presented their sustainability solutions. We are looking forward to continue working on this, on other things with you all in 2022."Istvan Kocsis, Acting CG of Switzerland, said that upon his arrival in China last summer, he was quickly acquainted with the dynamic and productive bilateral cooperation between the two countries.

Yuyuan Garden Photo: CFP CNY Cultures AbroadStephen Wong, CG of New Zealand introduced that Chinese New Year is also increasingly celebrated in New Zealand as well. "When I was growing up in New Zealand as a young child, we still maintained some traditions at Chinese New Year within my family. My sisters and I would give tea to our parents, and in return they would give us hong bao. I have carried on these traditions with my own children. They look forward to receiving their hong bao."Chua Teng Hoe, CG of Singapore expressed that as tigers symbolize the spirit of bravery and fearlessness, he sincerely hopes that we can be inspired by their spirits, and tackle the uncertainties and challenges brought up by epidemic. Tigers also represent energy and vitality and he hopes relations between Singapore, Shanghai and China can yield closer cooperation and deeper development, and be brimming with energy.H.E. Muhannad Sulaiman Alnaqbi, CG of the UAE said that the Spring Festival carries the cultural heritage of the Chinese nation and the essence of its civilization. It shows the Chinese people's aspiration for a better life. The Chinese people's aspiration for a better life will surely come true. "From what I have observed in Shanghai in the past few months, I can see that the Chinese people are united and forging ahead. Chinese people will make great achievements." Mario Antonio de Araujo, Deputy CG of Brazil said that an important Brazilian writer once wrote that Chinese people have been cultivating beauty for 5,000 years. He completely agrees with this statement, and feels that this beauty is enhanced when it's time to celebrate a long-standing tradition.He intends to spend the first day of the Year of the Tiger with Chinese and foreign friends, enjoying the flavors, colors and rhythms of Shanghai.Carlos Valera said that this will be his fourth year in China and he will spend CNY with his family and colleagues in Shanghai. His Chinese friends invited him to join their dinner to celebrate Chinese New Year's Eve. "Besides, my wife and I, we like a lot the traditional Lamp Festival in the Yuyuan Garden which reminds me of the Light Festival of Mexico and this really is an interesting crossover between our cultures."Shuichi Akamatsu said that, "during the Chinese New Year holidays, I am looking forward to being refreshed by playing golf with my friends."Ivana Vala Magatova, CG of Slovak stressed the importance of health, expressing her sincere wishes for GT's readers and Chinese people. Istvan Kocsis mentioned that he has seen Chinese New Year celebrations around the world, and it is a privilege to live it first hand, and witness and celebrate with Chinese people during this important celebration in Shanghai."My colleagues told me that, for once, the streets of the bubbling city of Shanghai would be empty with almost no cars and no passengers on public transport. This is something worth witnessing in such a busy city."This is a moment when, by tradition, families get together. It is a moment to share food and exchange gifts. This is a moment when people use and wear the colors of China. On the one hand, red symbolizes happiness, joy and good fortune; and on the other hand, gold symbolizes wealth and nobility. "It is also a moment to clean the house so we dirt from the previous year isn't stuck with us. I will certainly follow this tradition."