Boston Celtics center Robert Williams III (44) shoots a free throw during the second half against the Chicago Bulls at TD Garden. Photo: ICIn response to remarks made by some NBA players on China-related matters, former NBA star player Yao Ming said the sport serves as a bridge of communication, and as long as the bridge exists, time will fix many issues and he is happy to welcome those players who have a negative impression on China to visit the country and see a full picture.  Basketball is a sport with a worldwide impact, and when people have electronic devices in their hands, it's like having a microscope in viewing the words of many individuals. "I believe the sport serves as a bridge for cultural exchanges," Yao said at an event held by the China Public Diplomacy Association on Monday for the upcoming Beijing Winter Olympics. "Since there's a bridge, there are always people and cars running on it and, from time to time, there will be collisions," he noted. These comments were made after some NBA players and managers from teams like the Houston Rockets and Boston Celtics made irresponsible remarks on China's human rights and internal affairs. For example, Boston Celtics player Enes Kanter Freedom posted a video clip on his twitter in October, 2021 in support of "Tibet independence," which enraged many Chinese netizens. The Boston Celtics player also urged athletes to boycott the Winter Olympics. "People have the right to make their opinions heard, but they must be responsible for what they say," Yao stressed. The former NBA star said he has heard of Freedom but doesn't know him in person as there are several hundred players playing in the NBA every year. "I'm not in a position to comment," Yao said, adding that players who hold negative positions on China may have different channels to form their opinions. "But If there's an opportunity, I hope he could come to China, with me and other basketball fans as his guide," he said. "Seeing China for himself may help them know China in a more comprehensive way."