A staff member disinfects parcels to be delivered to residents at a residential area in Haidian District of Beijing, capital of China, Jan. 16, 2022. Photo:XinhuaChinese and foreign courier companies vowed to strictly follow virus control rules in China, including disinfecting the outer packages for all imported goods and placing virus warning labels on the packages, after the country vowed to prevent international packages from causing any more local COVID-19 flare-ups. FedEx said its business across China is operating as normal and the company continues to adhere to instructions by relevant departments in implementing coronavirus controls. "The outer packages of all imported goods are disinfected multiple times before delivery… notification stickers are also placed on the outer packaging of imported goods," FedEx told the Global Times in a statement. DHL also pledged to prevent the virus spreading from both "people and goods.""At present, the COVID prevention and control work remains at its highest level. We will carry out work according to the latest requirement and instructions from relevant authorities," DHL told the Global Times on Tuesday. SF Express, a large Chinese courier firm, said it disinfects parcels, equipment, facilities, and vehicles twice a day. Alibaba's logistics arm Cainiao told the Global Times it is tightening regulations for some warehouses, including disinfecting floor mats in order to sterilize employees' footwear. "We encourage 100 percent of our employees to be vaccinated and take the booster," the company said. In a notice released on Monday, the State Post Bureau of China suggested that people should reduce mail and express delivery of goods from countries and regions with a high risk of COVID-19 in order to prevent transmission of the virus through international mail.The bureau vowed to "build a barrier" against COVID-19 cases imported through international express mail, after at least two Omicron variant cases, one found in Beijing and another one in Shenzhen, were suspected to be related to packages from North America.A Beijing health official also called for reducing purchase of imported goods via cross-border e-commerce platforms during Monday's press conference, as the Beijing 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games and Spring Festival approach. Cross-border e-commerce, or Haitao in Chinese, became a niche trend in China due to the country's mature logistic network and the burgeoning growth of Chinese e-commerce sector. In 2020, the market scale of import via e-commerce in China reached 205 billion yuan ($32.32 billion), which is expected to grow during 2021-25 at an annual rate of around 25 percent, according to iResearch. Tmall Global under Alibaba, Kaola, and JD.com are among the popular Haitao platforms in China. During 2021's Spring Festival holidays, imported beverages, alcohol and cherries were popular items on the Tmall Global platform, with the platform seeing turnover rise 60 percent year-on-year. Official statistics showed that China's e-commerce sales surpassed 120 billion yuan during 2021's Spring Festival holidays as buying online became increasingly mainstream among young Chinese consumers.