Staff members paste QR codes on imported cold chain food for traceable management at a regional cold chain center in Wuhan, capital of central China's Hubei Province, Jan. 7, 2021. Photo: XinhuaChinese authorities are tightening anti-virus efforts for the country's cold-chain logistics network, after new COVID-19 cases have been found to be related to frozen packages, raising concerns about potential impact on supply and prices of cold-chain products.  While strict rules may have some impact on the supply and prices of certain products, but the anti-epidemic measures won't lead to a shortage of food and drastic price fluctuations in the long term, industry insiders told the Global Times on Sunday."Some products often have (infection) problems… and they have gradually lost the market in China. But some products still have relatively high demand, like Canadian lobsters," Fan Xubing, president of Beijing Seabridge Marketing, a cold-chain food importer, told the Global Times on Sunday.According to Fan, many industry workers worry, as a lot of evidence seems to show that the cold-chain business is vulnerable to the spread of the coronavirus. Since January 15, Beijing has reported 43 COVID-19 cases, of which 37 cases are infected with the Delta variant. The variant is either directly or indirectly related to cold chain industry, with many cases involving people who work at cold-chain facilities or nearby storage for fruits, or who have some connection to these facilities. Beijing will carry out screening work across all links of the supply chain of the contaminated frozen food, a government official said. "The city will increase the frequency of inspection samples for frozen food and strictly prevent imported frozen food from being mixed with domestic commodities in storage, transportation or packing," Xu Hejian, a spokesperson for the Beijing municipal government, said during a press conference on Saturday. A senior industry insider told the Global Times on Sunday that while the situation hasn't had an impact on prices yet, tighter epidemic prevention and control measures ahead of and during the Chinese New Year would reduce port efficiency and increase the cost of transportation.The person noted that prices usually rise before the Chinese New Year, and that will be true this year as well. The prices of meat and aquatic products may see the biggest rises.There are previous cases of COVID-19 detection impacting the prices of frozen food. For example, the price of Ecuador white shrimp plunged after some samples tested positive for the coronavirus. The incident caused other types of shrimp to see price jumps. Qin Yuming, secretary general of the cold-chain logistics professional committee of the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing, told the Global Times on Sunday that judging from experience, even if certain regions are hit by the pandemic, the country's general cold-chain product price won't have great volatility. "Judging from past rules, the price of cold-chain agricultural goods will maintain a rising trend from January to March this year, and then correct to a normal range of fluctuation," he said.Qin also said that the pandemic or strict epidemic controls won't lead to intense price volatility or shortages of products, but chances are in the short term, cold-chain food prices will fluctuate mildly, and supplies might be tight accordingly.Insiders remain confident in the industry given strong market demand."Some consumers might have worries over the safety of imported cold-chain products, but… they are still willing to buy them," Fan said, adding that the prices are affordable for most consumers. Data from Chinese customs showed that China imported nearly 9.38 million tons of meat in 2021 with an import volume of about $32 billion, up 4.6 percent on a yearly basis.