Bob Costas speaks on stage during David Cone's 20th Anniversary of the Perfect Game on June 19, 2019 in New York City. Photo: AFP"Faster, Higher, Stronger - Together" - the International Olympic Committee (IOC)'s amendment to the Olympic motto after more than 100 years shows the need to encourage global unity through the Olympic spirit under the current world situation. However, the US has been desecrating the motto, taking every chance to attack countries with different ideologies. Even the IOC has become the target of slander of some US elites.For example, former NBC sportscaster Bob Costas said on a CNN show on Sunday that "The IOC deserves all of the disdain and disgust that comes their way for going back to China yet again." The IOC chose Beijing and Sochi as host cities of 2008 Summer Olympics and 2014 Winter Olympics. But in Costas' opinion, this shows the IOC's "seeming disregard for the prevalence of human rights abuses when selecting host nations," according to CNN. "They're shameless about this stuff," Costas said of the IOC.Just because of ideological and geopolitical issues which have nothing to do with sports, Costas made such disdainful attacks on a prestigious international sports organization. This reflects his poor personal traits and low professional ethics. Even such a person can have a say in the US, which shows the US media's extreme sentiment on China-related issues."Costas may ignorantly believe that he can represent the world. Arrogance, prejudice, rude - all the negative words seem accurate to describe him. No educated person would use such irrational words on the IOC. The Olympic Games is an international event with maximum coordination between athletes and sports officials from most countries worldwide. It is far more authoritative and reliable than a commentator who talks nonsense about the IOC," Li Haidong, professor at the Institute of International Relations of the China Foreign Affairs University, told the Global Times.IOC President Thomas Bach said in his letter to the Olympic movement in September 2021, "The Olympic Winter Games Beijing 2022 come at an important moment to bring the world together in the Olympic spirit of peace, solidarity and unity." However, some US media and politicians have obviously chosen to deviate from such spirit. They keep making noise, pulling the US out of the mainstream of the world and turning the superpower into a "super spoiler" of sportsmanship.In the US, Costas is not the only one to link sports with politics. Before the Beijing Winter Olympics, many US media outlets have exposed their true ugly face. For example, NBC recently said that its coverage of Beijing Olympics will include a "geopolitical context." CNN's chief media correspondent Brian Stelter said that journalists will face a "unique challenge" during the Beijing Winter Olympics of "balancing politics and sports." And when NBC was broadcasting the opening ceremony of the Tokyo Olympic Games in July 2021, it deliberately used an incomplete map of China, sneakily playing a dirty political trick during games that attract world's attention.These US media outlets are willingly acting as the US government's propaganda tools to attack other countries and agencies worldwide, which is a humiliation for themselves. "The US media is giving a microphone to such extreme voices, which reflects how unhealthy and extreme US public opinion is toward China. These media outlets are not as neutral and independent as they claim. They are more like a branch under the leadership of the US government, exposing their hypocrisy," Li said.These US elites think they can represent the world, but in fact, they represent nobody. No matter how much noise they make, they cannot stop Beijing from giving the world a wonderful sports event. Views represented by Costas are marginalized in the world.