Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng Photo: guancha.cnChinese Vice Foreign Minister Le Yucheng on Monday reaffirmed that Taiwan is China's sacred territory and China has indisputable sovereignty over the island. This is the premise and starting point for discussing all issues concerning Taiwan, he added.  Le made the remarks during a speech at the opening of a forum hosted by Renmin University of China in Beijing, discussing the situation in 2022. Besides warning the secessionists, Le also warned the US which constantly uses Taiwan as a pawn to contain China.The US claims to follow the one-China principle, but acts unscrupulously in support of Taiwan secessionists, constantly eroding China's sovereignty, "stepping on red lines" and playing salami-slicing tricks, sending military advisers to Taiwan and shipping advanced weapons to Taiwan, Le said. "This is to create 'two Chinas' and 'one China, one Taiwan.' It is to hollow out the one-China principle," Le said. Le said on the issue of opposing Taiwan secession and upholding the "one China" principle, China won't retreat or make any compromises.  "There is only one option for Taiwan's future and that is reunification with the motherland," Le said.   Le said that the resumption of diplomatic ties between Nicaragua and China's central government in December represents the will of the people, the trend of the times, international justice and the inevitability of history.  "In pursuing secession, the Taiwan authorities are bound to take a narrower and narrower path. They will eventually come to a dead end and be left alone. It is only a matter of time before the Taiwan authorities' 'diplomatic ties' come to zero," Le said.   "China must and will be reunified. This is an irresistible historical process," Le said. "As Chinese President Xi Jinping has pointed out, no one should underestimate the Chinese people's strong resolve, firm will and strong ability to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity."  Global Times