anti-graft Photo: VCG Though China's anti-corruption campaign focuses more on corrupt officials, a recent documentary revealed a case in Southwest China's Yunnan Province where the local supervisory organ cleared the name of an official after a thorough investigation. The third episode of the anti-graft TV series produced by China's discipline inspection authorities, which was aired on Monday, showed that in December 2019, Yunnan Provincial Commission for Discipline Inspection and the Provincial Supervisory Committee held a public meeting to clarify accusations against then Party chief of state-owned Yunnan Tin Group Zhang Tao. The authorities received reports that Zhang, from 2017-19, made some questionable moves including interfering in project plans, purchasing properties at low prices and arranging jobs for his relatives. But an investigation into the allegations found they were false. Almost all the reports were anonymous and the only report that had a real name was from a private firm owner who claimed Zhang meddled in a bidding process. But the firm owner told investigators that the report was based on hearsays and not hard evidence. Investigators inspected Yunnan Tin Group, talking with employees and management officials at the state-owned company. To their surprise, they discovered that Zhang boldly fulfilled his duties and handled cases in violation of laws and discipline during his term with integrity. His insistence to follow through scandals while abiding by the law made him unpopular among the interest groups.  After assuming  the post of Party Chief and chairman of the Group in 2013,  Zhang dealt with nepotism and strengthened the group's inspection organ. His approach interfered with some groups' interests both inside and outside the organization. Before Zhang's arrival, private contractors cared little about safe production and used bribes to maintain their contracts with the state-owned tin firm. Zhang swiftly ended the corrupt chain. This enraged those who benefited from the system Zhang destroyed. In retaliation, they faked stories of corruption to damage his reputation. But the recent investigation by authorities has cleared Zhang's name. The reveal has also boosted confidence of other officials to fulfill their duties without concerns over retaliation from corrupt factions. The series, titled Zero Tolerance, has prompted heated discussions on social media in China. It brings to light the downfall of former vice minister of public security Sun Lijun among other "tigers" as well as "flies." The five-episode documentary used 16 cases and interviews with 140 criminal officials, inspectors and common people in order to highlight the anti-corruption efforts the Party is pursuing. Global Times