Residents take COVID-19 tests in Kwai Chung of Hong Kong, south China, Jan. 23, 2022. Hong Kong reported 140 new cases of COVID-19 over the past 24 hours on Sunday, taking the total tally to 13,286, according to data from the Center for Health Protection.Photo:XinhuaAmid new cluster outbreaks in Hong Kong, Carrie Lam, the chief executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, vowed to push forward a vaccine bubble plan and mass vaccination. With a daily testing capacity that can increase to 150,000, Lam said she remained open to assistance from the Chinese mainland when asked by reporters during a weekly briefing on Tuesday. Hong Kong recorded over 100 new COVID-19 cases for a third consecutive day on Monday as local authorities locked down residential compounds in the Kwai Chung area to curb the spread and imposed measures such as asking some employees to work from home and city-wide restrictions as well as mandatory testing. The city's daily testing capacity is about 100,000, which can reach as much as 150,000, Lam told the briefing, noting that the government is now working on the sustainability of the plan. "If we need help, we'll ask for it from the mainland, in fact, the central government is very concerned about the epidemic in Hong Kong," she said, noting that Hong Kong and the mainland are "one family."Lam also noted that the local government in South China's Guangdong already proposed to the HKSAR government that if the city needs any help, Guangdong stands ready to help. Considering the epidemic situation in Hong Kong, a number of lawmakers initiated an online petition on Sunday asking to streamline the lockdown procedures, expanding testing space, enhancing the itinerary tracking to trace the origins and transmission routes, meanwhile also demanding for the help from the central government in reserving the special medicines for Hong Kong.Hong Kong legislator Junius Ho Kwan-yiu, who also took part in the petition, told the Global Times on Monday night that from the incident that Cathay Pacific crew not following the anti-epidemic rules to trigger the community outbreak, local residents have become highly nervous. "Although the HKSAR government has taken a number of measures in curbing the spread, it's been two years now, we have much to learn from the mainland's experiences," he said. Ho noted that a major reason for Hong Kong not conducting a full-scale nucleic acid testing is due to the so-called concerns that a lockdown and restrictions may hurt the city's open economy. "If we lock down a few days to contain the epidemic, the losses would be much less than the prolonged epidemic fight without decisive measures," he said.Some experts considered that the shortage of staff and equipment make it difficult to reach a full-scale testing demand. "We can learn from the mainland's cities, for example, our neighboring city Shenzhen, which has conducted full-scale testing in several districts within a very short period of time. If we need assistance, we should ask for it," he said. The central government already offered the help to Hong Kong in 2020 including enhancing testing capacity, building makeshift shelter hospitals and providing vaccines. In August 2020, the central government dispatched nucleic acid testing groups to support the anti-epidemic work, and helped the HKSAR government build temporary labs and temporary treatment facilities in the AsiaWorld-Expo to treat patients with mild symptoms.