Residents take nucleic acid tests in Tianjin on January 9, 2022. Photo: VCGTianjin has won a complete victory against the Omicron variant within 18 days since the latest COVID-19 spike raided the city on January 8, deputy head of the city's center for disease control and prevention noted, saying that the current new local infections are all found at the centralized quarantine sites and there exists no risk of spreading the virus in communities since January 21. Based on the fact that the new infections confirmed at the quarantine sites had been placed under control for more than four days. They pose no risk of spreading the virus in the society, Zhang Ying, deputy head of Tianjin Center for Disease Control and Prevention (Tianjin CDC), assured the public in an interview with China Central Television (CCTV) on Tuesday. It is absolutely certain that Tianjin has won a complete victory over the outbreak, she said. Meanwhile, Zhang also noted that it would be unwise to define the Omicron variant as a "supersized influenza," which needs more evidences and longer observation. According to the clinical manifestations of the cases in Tianjin, 42 percent of the infections are classified as general cases who have had pneumonia, the proportion of which is much higher than that of pneumonia among influenza patients, Zhang explained. Thus, despite the city wrapping up the epidemic prevention and control work at the moment, there is still no way to relax or take it easy for now, Zhang added, stressing that related measures taken at the lockdown and control zones have to be kept in place and the monitoring of pharmacies and fever clinics have to be strengthened. Besides, personal protection at public venues where people gather can continue. Zhang predicted that the entire city can gradually lift its lockdown on controlled areas by January 31 and local residents can spend the Spring Festival at home.Although the origin of this outbreak remains unknown at present, Zhang assured the public that the authority has locked some clues and has implemented related control measures. Global Times