Stewardesses welcome passengers to board the first train of the Jiuqian-Dongfeng section of Jiuquan-Ejina railway at Suzhou Railway Station in Jiuquan City, northwest China's Gansu Province, Dec. 26, 2021. (Xinhua/Chen Bin)Suzhou in East China's Jiangsu Province, home to over 10 million people and known for various historical tourist sites, has suspended schools and parts of its medical services after eight COVID-19 cases were found in the city on Monday. Preliminary results showed the infections belong to the Omicron variant, authorities said.The eight cases -- seven confirmed patients and an asymptomatic one -- are all from the Suzhou Industrial Park, home to some 1,837 high-tech firms in areas including bio-pharmacy, nanotechnology applications and artificial intelligence.The first confirmed patient was working at an enterprise in the park dealing with imported material (not cold-chain) warehousing. The patient tested positive during nucleic acid testing at a fever clinic on Sunday. Suzhou on Thursday reported an asymptomatic case - also a staff member of an enterprise engaged in the receipt and delivery of imported materials (not cold-chain) in warehouses. The city had not seen local positive cases in several months before reporting the asymptomatic one.The Suzhou Industrial Park has asked all of its residents and staff, involving some 1.1 million people, to take COVID-19 testing starting from Monday morning, authorities said in a late-night notice.Four of the positive cases already identified on Sunday night were found among patients in fever clinics and those taking nucleic acid tests voluntarily, China Central Television (CCTV) reported. Preliminary analysis shows the virus found in these infections is the Omicron mutant strain, Suzhou health officials said, noting relevant gene sequencing comparison work is still in progress of key venues and people related to the epidemic surge. A total of 39 risk regions are under lockdown or control as of press time. The city has launched an emergency response mechanism immediately, and is carrying out epidemiological survey, testing, and disinfection in places of concern. All public gatherings have been canceled, and cinemas, internet cafes, KTV, pubs and other enclosed public venues are temporarily closed, local authorities said in an announcement. All middle and primary schools, kindergartens, and offline tutoring classes are suspended as well. The notice required that online and offline pharmacies suspend the sale of four categories of epidemic-related drugs, including antipyretic, cough, antiviral and antibacterial medicines.Public transport management and control will be strengthened, requiring rail transit, cabs, and buses to strictly implement temperature measurement and health code checking before taking rides. A number of hospitals in Suzhou have halted outpatient and emergency medical services starting from Sunday evening, CCTV reported. In face of the COVID-19 spike in Suzhou, neighboring Shanghai on Monday announced to halt its inter-province metro operation to and from Suzhou's Kunshan, according to authority's notice.Global Times