Young artists perform the renowned Chinese folk song Jasmine Flower during a concert on Monday night in Shanghai. Photo: Chen Xia/Global TimesA concert in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Shanghai Communiqué was held on Monday night, with many classic Chinese and US folk songs in the repertoire, reminding people of the spirit of the Communiqué which started half a century of friendship between China and the US.The concert included pieces like America, the Beautiful and Butterfly Lovers. Chinese folk song Jasmine Flower was played by both Chinese and US musicians.Justin O'Jack, chief representative of the China office of the University of Virginia, who  also performed the Chinese folk song, said the shared future of bilateral relations between China and the US will continue to grow stronger together through these people-to-people exchanges.  O'Jack told the Global Times that it is a great honor for him to participate in the event. He mentioned that it is important to reflect on "the spirit of the Shanghai Communiqué," where China and the US agreed to conduct their relations under the principles of equality, peaceful coexistence and mutual benefit, and to broaden the understanding between the two peoples through mutually beneficial cultural exchanges.The lyrics of Jasmine Flower celebrate the sweet-smelling, white Jasmine blossoms and an allegory of spring. O'Jack said that he was most deeply impressed by the talented young dancers and singers. "These young dancers and singers, dressed in the white and green colors of the Jasmine flower, together with their peers from the Shanghai American School, represent our shared future and remind us how important it is to build a better world, one in which China and the US cooperate for the mutual benefit of our children and for the world," O'Jack noted.Despite the ups and downs between China and the US, cultural exchanges have never stopped. He Wei, Dean of the Tianjin Juilliard School, told the Global Times on Monday that he predicted that cultural and educational exchanges between China and the US, will become more and more vibrant in the future. "In the past, mostly Chinese students went abroad but I believe many overseas students will come to China for education as well," He said. He cited musical education as an example, saying that many Chinese students have studied music abroad since the 1980s, but now overseas students are also coming to China to study classical music. According to He, the development of classical music in the West has become a little saturated and the future of this music is in Asia. This pushed many students to come to China to seek career. "In China, you see so many new concert halls, opera halls and music groups. A very good ecosystem is gradually forming here in China, and chances are plenty," he said.