Yuzuru Hanyu Phptp: Li Hao/GTTwo-time Olympic champion Yuzuru Hanyu from Japan fell when trying to conduct a quadruple axel, or 4A, on Thursday in Beijing 2022, but he earns respect from fans and netizens for courage and spirit to keep challenging.Hanyu finally ranked fourth with a total score of 283.21. Nanthan Chen from the US claimed the gold medal with 332.60, followed by Yuma Kagiyama with 310.05 and Shoma Uno with 293.00. Both the latter two are from Japan.Chen also created new world record in long program with 218.63.Chinese skater Jin Boyang ranked ninth with 270.43, which is his personal seasonal best.Although failed to claim a medal, Hanyu and Jin earned respect from netizens and fans with their spirit to continue challenging higher level. Netizens flooded to Chinese social media platforms to cheer for them with related hashtags earning more than 700 million views. Hanyu bowed to the audience and touched the ice before he left the venue. He told media after the competition that, despite the failure, he did better than previously. There is a bit regret, but he had done his best, Hanyu said. Netizens said that he did not land a perfect 4A, but he successfully became an ideal Hanyu, who demonstrates the spirit of Olympic to keep seeking higher, faster and stronger.Jin Boyang also cried after finishing his routine as the seasonal best personal score indicated that he had stepped out from a valley bottom that had started since the Pyeongchang 2018. "All my efforts in the past four years paid off, I was playing myself on the ice," Jin told media.   Jin also expressed admiration for Hanyu. "He is already a top figure skater in the world, but he never stops embracing challenges and surpassing. This is real fighting spirit and deserves admiration," Jin said, noting that he would go to congratulate Hanyu when he successfully lands a 4A.When asked if he would continue figure skating, Jin said, "Definitely will. I will continue to demonstrate my spirit on the ice and encourage more Chinese people, Chinese children to join skating." Jin's admiration for Hanyu started since he was young. He once told media that Hanyu is his idol since childhood. In the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games, Hanyu has become the focus of public attention even before he arrived in Beijing. Netizens joked that he has become a folk ambassador for China-Japan exchanges.After Hanyu qualified for the Beijing Olympics, his Japanese fans called on Chinese audiences to cheer for Hanyu during the Beijing Winter Olympic Games as they would be unable to attend the event due to COVID-19 restrictions. In October 2021, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying replied to the "request," commenting "We got it!"Hashtags concerning the 27-year-old Ice Prince, including his arrival in Beijing, his competition schedule, his first appearance in the training stadium and his first challenge to 4A, attracted tens of millions of views on China's social media platforms in the past weeks.It is very rare for a foreign athlete to win enormous popularity in China, but Hanyu made it. It is not only because of his beautiful performance on the ice - a Chinese figure skating commentator said "his face is like jade, body like pine, fluttering like a wild goose, curling like a swimming dragon" - but his gentlemanly character. In a viral video spreading on Chinese social media platforms, Hanyu helped Jin turn the latter's backward-facing national flag. This move led Hanyu into the hearts of millions in China. Hanyu has also encouraged Jin on many occasions in Chinese "Tiantian (Jin's childhood name) jiayou," according to media reports. In a previous interview with media, when asked do you love China, Hanyu also answered "Yes, I love China." All these kind gestures to China and details like hugging and applause for other athletes and kneeling down to avoid disturbing other athletes' interview, contribute to Hanyu's ever surging popularity among Chinese people.Global Times