People from Ukraine arrive at Beregsurany, eastern Hungary, Feb. 26, 2022.Photo:XinhuaClick here to stay tuned with our live updates on Ukraine tensions. Shortly after the Chinese Embassy in Ukraine told the Global Times exclusively on Sunday that it is mulling alternative plans to evacuate local Chinese apart from charter flights, some Chinese nationals there said they are considering driving from Kiev to neighboring countries, and the embassy is coordinating with other Chinese embassies in Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland to facilitate Chinese nationals' trips. The Chinese consulate in Odessa was quoted as saying in Chinese news outlet thepaper.cn on Monday that the consulate is now arranging for Chinese students there to evacuate. A Chinese student in Ukraine surnamed Li confirmed that he received this message. As Odessa is near the sea, the Chinese nationals there can evacuate by ship, he said.While delegations from Ukraine and Russia met on Monday morning in an attempt to negotiate a ceasefire, explosions were heard in Kiev, and some Chinese nationals told the Global Times on Monday that they are looking at alternative plans besides waiting for charter flights. A Chinese national surnamed Lin told the Global Times that given the situation, she and her colleague were looking for an opportunity to take vacant seats if other Chinese nationals decide to drive from Kiev to Moldova. The Global Times learned that some 40 employees in Ukraine of Chinese tech-giant Huawei had been stuck in heavy traffic while trying to drive out of the country to Slovakia on Saturday due to long tailbacks on the roads approaching border crossings. Appealing to the embassy for assistance, the embassy liaised with relevant departments and eventually helped them arrive in Slovakia safely.A source close to Huawei confirmed with the Global Times on Monday that those staff from its office in Ukraine have been temporarily resettled in Slovakia.The Chinese Embassy in Ukraine is mulling alternative plans to evacuate local Chinese apart from charter flights amid the deteriorating situation in the country, and as long as safety premises are met, they will immediately take action and implement the evacuation plan, the embassy told Global Times in an exclusive interview on Sunday. When asked about whether China is preparing to withdraw Chinese nationals in Ukraine during a press briefing on Monday, Wang Wenbin, spokesperson of the Chinese Foreign Ministry, told reporters that the situation in Ukraine is complicated and changing rapidly. The ministry, along with the embassy, is maintaining communication with all parties, closely following the development of the situation, and studying all feasible plans to assist the voluntary safe evacuation of Chinese citizens in Ukraine. "The road and land traffic safety situation in Ukraine is extremely unstable. We remind Chinese citizens in Ukraine that they must pay close attention to the situation where they are located, remain calm, and take all necessary measures to take safety precautions to avoid accidents," Wang said. The Chinese consulate in Odessa also issued a notice on Monday to remind local Chinese nationals to stay away from mobile phones or other valuables on the street as Odessa police has found dangerous objects suspected of being land mines in the city. In a video call between Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi with South Korean Foreign Minister Chung Eui-yong on Monday, Wang said the Chinese government pays high attention to the Chinese nationals' safety in Ukraine. The Chinese Foreign Ministry has launched an emergency coordination plan, communicating closely with relevant parties and using all means and necessary measures to ensure the safety of Chinese nationals and institutions, Wang said. For those who evacuate on their own, the embassy will provide any necessary assistance while the evacuation plan has yet to be launched, according to people familiar with the matter. There are around 6,000 Chinese nationals in Ukraine. In the latest video on how embassy staff work and live, when sirens sounded, Chinese diplomats and staff rushed to an underground bunker while continuing to work there such as collecting information of Chinese nationals and issuing safety reminders. The embassy also coordinated with other Chinese embassies in Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland to facilitate Chinese nationals' trips from Ukraine to those countries.