Photo: Li Hao/GT"Splendid," "amazing" and "spectacular" … athletes and officials from around the world reacted to the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games, sharing on social media their excitement and cheering on the unprecedented sights and the eco-friendly ideas presented with high technology in the Bird's Nest.Bobsledder Edson Bindilatti, who was also the flag bearer for the Brazilian team at the opening ceremony, told the Global Times on Friday night that he was very happy and honored to fly the flag of Brazil at the opening ceremony. "All athletes dream of going to the Olympic Games, and when you realize this dream is coming true and you are invited to bring the flag, all the efforts you made and the difficulties you went through are worth it," he said."Spectacular may be an understatement," Siddharth Chatterjee, resident coordinator of UN China, shared his feelings on social media as he attended the opening ceremony. Spanish skater Adrian Diaz shared selfies of himself with his teammates on Instagram, saying that he is proud to represent Spain again at his second Olympic Games and that it was a unique and unforgettable night. "The opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 is so beautiful!" wrote famous Italian Alpine skier Marta Bassino on Instagram. She also posted several photos and video clips of herself and Team Italy, wearing Giorgio Armani designs, inside the stadium, which has garnered 26,000 likes. US hockey player Alex Carpenter also expressed his feelings entering the Bird's Nest. "Nothing in the world quite like this!" he said via Instagram. British short track speed skater Kayhryn Thomason wrote, "This was amazing!" while showing her selfies with teammates at the opening ceremony. Ander Mirambell, a skeleton racer of Team Spain, posted on Twitter that his experience at the opening ceremony was "a dream, an illusion and a reality."Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic released five posts during the opening ceremony on Instagram, showing him meeting with other international dignitaries and welcoming the Serbian delegation.A survey of 5,337 netizens launched on Japan's Yahoo site showed that more than 57 percent of netizens gave 10 points to the opening ceremony - the highest score. Some netizens said they were amazed by the high technology used in the ceremony and also the eco-friendly ideas on display. From the breathtaking display of rising Olympic rings and a colossal ice cube, to the unique "snowflake" Olympic flame, Beijing, the first dual Olympic city in the world, innovated green and high-tech standards for the Winter Games with its advanced space technology at the opening ceremony on Friday, delivering China's promise of holding a "simple, safe and splendid" event for all. Unlike the 2008 opening which focused more on China's 5,000 years of history, the 2022 opening performance on Friday night mixed Chinese culture with innovative green and hi-tech concepts, highlighting China's present and future. This reflects the profound changes that have taken place over the 14 years since the last Beijing Olympic Games and shows how the Chinese people perceive themselves and how they hope the world perceives China, experts said.  The opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics was also under the world's spotlight. Canadian media outlet the Globe and Mail called it short but vibrant, and the Los Angeles Times said the Beijing Winter Olympics opened with a scene of calm, while Fox Sports Australia described it as an incredible ceremony. UK-based media The Guardian noted the opening ceremony could be "the greatest show on earth."When the opening ceremony was broadcast live on German television, the commentator kept exclaiming "poetic," "fantastic," "perfect" and other words from the moment he saw the distinctive "Spring" fireworks.