Hua Chunying Photo: VCGAt a time when China-US relations are facing difficulties and challenges, it is more necessary for the US to review the spirits and inspirations of the Shanghai Communiqué, Chinese Foreign Ministry commented on US State Department spokesperson Ned Price's comments that he was not aware of any plans at the moment for a statement on the 50th anniversary of former US president Richard Nixon's visit to China. At a press briefing on February 23, Price was asked by media why there hasn't been any mention of the 50th anniversary of former US President Richard Nixon's visit to China — a groundbreaking event that paved the way for US' recognition of China and opening of diplomatic relations — and if the spokesperson is embarrassed by it now and thinks that it should never have happened. Price replied that he was certainly not embarrassed by it and there are some anniversaries they commemorate in the US but he was not aware of any plans at the moment for a statement. "I don't know that we're ignoring it. I'm not sure that I would equate not putting out a formal statement with ignoring it," Price said. In response, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said that some details on the US side are indeed intriguing and it is understandable that US' attitude has provoked some associations or speculations among journalists. But Hua thinks that at a time when China-US relations are facing difficulties and challenges, it is more necessary for the US to review the spirits and inspirations of the Shanghai Communiqué. According to Hua, she reviewed on Wednesday with colleagues the main contents of the Shanghai Communiqué issued by China and the US during US president Nixon's visit to China 50 years ago. The one-China principle, which, along with the principles of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states, non-aggression against other states, non-interference in the internal affairs of other states, equality and mutual benefit, and peaceful coexistence, constitutes the political foundation of normalization of relations and the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries, Hua said. As far as Hua knows, China and the US will hold some commemorations together in the near future and representatives from both sides will participate in the events which are still under preparations. Global Times