Photo: VCGWith a spectacular closing ceremony for the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games on Sunday, Beijing, the world's first dual Olympic city, bid a "bittersweet goodbye" and provided countless unforgettable memories for athletes and fans from around the world. As promised, the closing ceremony was full of Chinese-style ­romance, futuristic displays and messages of solidarity and hope.Spectacular display The ceremony started with a program lighting the emblem of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics with snowflake lanterns held by children, followed by several red ribbons flying to the National Stadium, covering the giant snowflake at the center and eventually turning it into a Chinese knot. The Chinese knot symbolizes connection and togetherness. When athletes entered the stadium, they stepped into different circles of the Chinese knot on the ground, jumping and laughing.The 80-minute closing ceremony ceremony was based on the colors red and blue, the first being a traditional Chinese color and the second symbolizing ice and snow.In addition to Chinese traditional cultural elements, including the Chinese knot, lanterns and the 12 Chinese zodiac signs, technological innovations also ensured the success of the closing ceremony.

Photo: VCGZhang Yimou, chief director of the ceremony, said that he had initially been told that there would be around 600 athletes from different countries and regions willing to attend the closing ceremony, but later learned that the number had increased to more than 2,000."The number broke the record of attendance among athletes for the closing ceremony," Zhang told China Media Group. "Our friends are all over the world. It means that athletes are all happy here and were willing to join in the party tonight." All 1,300 performers at the closing ceremony were ordinary Chinese people, including elementary school and university students and local Beijing residents, continuing to show the sincerity of every Chinese.

Photo: Li Hao/Global Times"I am very happy to display Chinese young people's character in front of the world on this platform," said one Beijing elementary school student.The ceremony was based on the colors red and blue, the first being a traditional Chinese color and the second symbolizing ice and snow.In addition to Chinese traditional cultural elements, including the Chinese knot, lanterns and the 12 Chinese zodiac signs, technological innovations also ensured the success of the closing ceremony. Moments in dual Olympic city In the short film 2022 and Me, athletes' highlights in Beijing were recreated on the screen. The joy of holding their medals, the excitement on making a breakthrough, athletes from different countries hugging each other, and moments when they were moved to tears were all recorded in Olympic history and become part of the memory of Beijing.As the film was played on the big screen in the Bird's Nest, it gave everyone the chance to relive Beijing 2022.The closing ceremony also offered a nod to the Beijing 2008 Summer Olympic Games, another spectacular event held in the Chinese capital 14 years ago. 

Photo: VCGIn the final segment, Beijing prepared a short film titled Goodbye! Together for a Shared Future! As the lights went out, classic scenes from the opening ceremony of the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics were reproduced, as the dream-like Olympic Rings rose from the stage into the sky. The audience joined the children's choir in singing the 2008 theme song, "You and Me," bringing everyone back to the summer of 14 years ago and evoking the memories of Beijing, the only dual Olympic city.This moment of commemoration was a prescribed part of the closing ceremony of the Olympic Games. Performers waved willow twigs - depicted by green light sticks - which are usually used when two friends part in Chinese culture. In Chinese, the word for "willow" is a homophone for "stay," reflecting the bittersweet goodbye.

Photo: VCGTradition and culture were on show everywhere during the ceremony, which was also backed by various advanced technologies, including 5G, artificial intelligence and space tech.The LED screen was one aspect of the advanced technologies used during the opening and closing ceremonies, and was controlled by space launch technology. When running on stage, all steps such as counting down and security checks are similar to those used in launching a rocket, according to Chang Yu, head of the work department of the opening and closing ceremonies.Hello, ItalyAt the closing ceremony, the small snowflakes of the cauldron were turned off one by one and the Olympic Torch was eventually extinguished. A short while later, the image of the snowflake reappeared, symbolizing the passing on of the Olympic flame and spirit.After handing over the Olympic flag to the next host - the Italian cities of Milan and Cortina d'Ampezzo - an eight-minute performance was presented by the host cities, expressing the harmony between humans and nature.

Photo: VCGThe show was a dialogue between these two cities, Milan representing modern society and Cortina d'Ampezzo symbolizing nature.The production team from Italy had spent nearly one year preparing the performance and cooperated well with the Chinese directing team, the Xinhua News Agency reported.Two Italian dancers from the two cities performed the eight-minute show, Duality and Together. In an apparent tribute to the Chinese people, in a video, mayors of the two Italian cities offered greetings and extended warm welcomes in Chinese. Though the Beijing Winter Olympics have now concluded, the unforgettable memories from Beijing will last forever and Beijing's unique place in Olympic history as the first dual Olympic city will last forever.