Vinnitsa，UkraineClick here to stay tuned with our live updates on Ukraine tensions.The city of Vinnitsa, Ukraine is home to the Ukrainian Air Force headquarters. According to foreign media reports, several places in the area recently saw heavy gunfire, and a number of military facilities were damaged. The Global Times obtained satellite images from spacety, a satellite data service provider, on Monday showing that the runway of Vinnitsa Air Base was under fire.Ukraine’s state news agency reported Friday that a Russian cruise missile was shot down near Ukraine’s Vinnitsa region. According to Topsnews, the city of Vinnitsa sounded air raid sirens the same day. A day before that, a video of the ammunition of a military base in Vinnitsa went viral. All these prove the significance of Vinnitsa. However, what is the current situation in this strategic location of the Ukrainian army? A satellite image obtained by spacety shows that the runway of Vinnitsa Air Base was under fire, the Global Times learned Monday. Based on analysis of the satellite images, the company’s research fellows determined that the runway at Vinnitsa, which was 2,500 meters long, had an effective length of about 1,600 meters after it came under fire. Satellite images show that there were still several intact fighter jets inside the airport. The company’s research fellows also said that after comparing the images taken by the satellite on February 21 and February 24, the runway was hit before 5pm on February 24.A military expert told the Global Times on Monday that the runway was dozens of meters wide and satellite images showed a direct hit, indicating the precision of the strike. The attacker is believed to have used a precision-guided anti-runway warhead, but the exact type is difficult to determine. As the Russian military is reported to have used tactical ballistic missiles, the possibility of using ballistic missiles equipped with anti-runway warheads cannot be ruled out.The expert also said precision-guided weapons could cause temporary loss of airport functions by causing damage of about 100 meters in one part of the runway. “After being hit, the effective length of the runway is reduced to about 1,600 meters. Theoretically speaking, aircraft can take off, but in practice, considering the increase in takeoff weight of the aircraft after being loaded, the 1,600-meter runway is not enough to ensure a normal takeoff. The length of damage in the 100-meter range also increases the amount of work needed to repair the runway,” the expert said.Igor Konashenkov, Russian defense ministry spokesman, declared complete control of Ukrainian airspace in a daily press briefing in Moscow on Monday. “Russian aviation has gained air supremacy over the entire territory of Ukraine,” Konashenkov claimed. There was no immediate response from Ukraine.