China-Pakistan  Chinese President Xi Jinping met with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan in Beijing on Sunday. Xi said China is willing to work with Pakistan to accelerate the building of a closer China-Pakistan community with a shared future in the new era, deepen development of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) and expand cooperation in fields such as technology, agriculture and people's wellbeing.In their meeting, Xi pointed out that 2021 was a year of great significance for both countries. China and Pakistan celebrated the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties. Looking back the history and drawing lessons from the past, the two countries will pioneer bilateral ties with more resolute confidence, Xi said.  China is willing to join hands with Pakistan to build a closer China-Pakistan community with a shared future in the new era. The strategic relationship between China and Pakistan is of prominence in a changing world, Xi noted, saying the countries will conduct more extensive and deepening strategic cooperation following the tradition of always bearing mutual assistance and cooperation. Xi said that China will firmly support Pakistan to defend its national independence, sovereignty and dignity and fight terrorism. Meanwhile, China is willing to dock with Pakistan's development strategy, promote the deepening development of the CPEC, ensure the successful implementation of major projects, expand cooperation in the fields such as technology, agriculture, society and people's wellbeing and build a green, healthy and digitalized corridor to support the industrialized processes of Pakistan. China upholds fairness and justice in international affairs. China is willing to strengthen the coordination and cooperation with Pakistan in multilateral venues such as the UN and promote justice and world and regional peace. Khan thanked China's support to Pakistan in fighting COVID-19. The vaccines offered by China not only saved the people of Pakistan but also the country's economy. He spoke highly of bilateral ties, noting China and Pakistan have an all-weather friendship. The prime minister said Pakistan will stand with China at any time. “Pakistan and China not only see each other as iron brothers, but they also think that China and Pakistan relationship is as high as the Himalayas,” Khan told the Global Times in an exclusive interview on February 5.Khan was among the world leaders that attended the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics on February 4. He congratulated China for the marvelous opening ceremony.During the meeting, Khan also said China ended the absolute poverty which is the greatest achievement of mankind. He said Pakistan is willing to promote the second phase of the CPEC and strengthen cooperation in fields such as industry, agriculture and information technology to advance the country's economic development. Khan also said Pakistan is willing to strengthen dialogue and cooperation with China in affairs related to Afghanistan and safeguard regional security and stability. Global Times