A Chinese PLA Air Force Y-20 transport aircraft carrying medical supplies arrives in Honiara, capital of the Solomon Islands, on February 18. Photo: Courtesy of Chinese Embassy in the Solomon Islands Anti-epidemic supplies provided by China, including test kits and oxygen generators weighing over 20 tons arrived in Honiara, the capital of the Solomon Islands, on Friday, as the country faces a growing number of COVID-19 cases, another severe challenge following the unrest that took place in November last year.The supplies were delivered by a Chinese PLA Air Force Y-20 transport aircraft. Chinese Ambassador to the Solomon Islands Li Ming and Solomon Islands Minister of Health and Medical Services Culwick Togamana were at the airport to receive the supplies.The supplies include 320,000 test kits, 20 oxygen-making machines, 20 oximeters, 180,000 pairs of gloves, 20,000 pairs of goggles, 10,000 protective suits, 100 foldable beds and 70 tents.  


Chinese Ambassador to the Solomon Islands Li Ming and Solomon Islands Minister of Health and Medical Services Culwick Togamana at the airport in Honiara on February 18 to receive Chinese medical supplies. Photo: Courtesy of Chinese Embassy in the Solomon Islands At this critical moment, at the request of the Solomon Islands, China once again rushed to the rescue and overcame difficulties such as the suspension of air routes between China and the Solomon Islands. China prepared the supplies as quickly as possible and dispatched military transport planes to deliver them, fully demonstrating China's firm support to the Solomon Islands government and its people, and shows China's speed and responsibility as a major country.  The supplies include test kits and oxygen-making machines provided by the Chinese central government, and personal protective equipment dispatched by South China's Guangdong Province from the China-Pacific island countries' reserve of emergency supplies, as well as test kits donated by the Ministry of Public Security.  


A Chinese PLA Air Force Y-20 transport aircraft carrying medical supplies arrives in Honiara, capital of the Solomon Islands, on February 18. Photo: Courtesy of Chinese Embassy in the Solomon Islands China has provided strong support and assistance to the Solomon Islands in its response to social unrest and the COVID-19 epidemic. The first batch of three tons of police supplies arrived on December 29, 2021.  On January 26, a chartered flight sent by the Chinese government arrived in the country carrying a police advisory team, an expert team for construction projects, 50,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccines, 20,000 test kits, 60,000 medical masks and 15 tons of police supplies.  

A Chinese PLA Air Force Y-20 transport aircraft carrying medical supplies arrives in Honiara, capital of the Solomon Islands, on February 18. Photo: Courtesy of Chinese Embassy in the Solomon Islands