00 

Closing ceremony of Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games at National Stadium in Beijing on February 20, 2022. Photo: VCGFor many people around the world, the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics will be remembered for its amazing performances, top-tier competitions, and of course, cheerful friendship and sportsmanship, leaving many with the moments that reflect the true meaning of the Olympic spirit. Many hugs, cries and laughs were captured during the Games, and there were also moments to cherish old and new friends, especially during the difficult times of the COVID-19 pandemic which has forced many apart for more than two years. The Global Times selected 10 heartwarming stories, including the friendship between Russian and Ukrainian athletes, touching celebrations, and gift-changing moments between Chinese and US athletes. A heartfelt "Welcome-to-China" greeting which made a US athlete cry, and two strangers who live thousands of miles apart could become friends thanks to an Olympic gift. For many athletes, this was also the moment to get to know a real China and its people, who are kind, generous and hospitable. 

Silver medalist Ukraine's Oleksandr Abramenko (right) and bronze medalist Russian Olympic Committee's Ilia Burov celebrate after the men's freestyle skiing aerials final 2 during the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games at the Genting Snow Park A & M Stadium in Zhangjiakou, China. Photo: AFPA hug touching the world"It is very pleasant that we were caught on camera showing mutual sportsmanship and friendship between peoples," Russian freestyle skier Ilia Burov told the Global Times after a picture of him hugging Ukraine's Oleksandr Abramenko went viral on the internet. "The Olympics are not about politics. The Olympics are, first and foremost, about sports," said the Russian athlete. The hug between the athletes from the two countries that are currently at odds happened on February 16 when Abramenko took the second place in the men's freeski aerials, Ukraine's first medal at the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics, while Burov took home the bronze. The picture of their hug also appeared in the short video played at the closing ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics. Burov told the Global Times why he hugged Abramenko. "Because we are friends. I warmly congratulated him on his Olympic medal. Just like how we stood on the podium in South Korea [in the Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games], where we also said friendly and kind words to each other," Burov said.

Gold medalist Xu Mengtao (right) of Team China is embraced by Ashley Caldwell of the US during the women's freestyle skiing aerials final at the Beijing Winter Olympics on February 14, 2022. Photo: VCG'Tao Tao, Olympic champion'Chinese skater Xu Mengtao won China's first gold in the freestyle skiing women's aerials in Zhangjiakou on February 14. What came as one of the warmest moments of the Games happened when a member of Team USA, Ashley Caldwell, congratulated Xu on her success and gave her a tight hug and called her "Tao Tao, Olympic champion."Caldwell was ranking first after the first round of the final but she failed on the landing of her last jump, finishing fourth.Later, Caldwell hugged Xu to congratulate her on what many netizens said was a warm moment in the cold, with temperatures below freezing."I have known Chinese athlete Xu since my first Olympic Games. She is an incredible competitor and great friend of mine," Caldwell told the Global Times in an interview. "We both have been competing triples for a long time and share the camaraderie and challenges of our sport. I was very proud of her winning gold in her home country. She has earned it," Caldwell remarked.

American snowboarder Tessa Maud Photo: IC 'Welcome to China!'This is a story that impressed many Chinese netizens and officials, including spokesperson of the Chinese Foreign Ministry Zhao Lijian. Trending topics on Chinese social media platforms during the Winter Olympics were not only focusing on athletes who won gold medals like Gu Ailing, but also on foreign athletes who won the hearts of the Chinese people.US snowboarder Tessa Maud is one of them. On her last day in China, Maud shared a video on social media, saying she was very sad for leaving the country and she was going to cry on the plane. Her videos first went viral on Chinese social media after she caught a heartfelt moment at the opening ceremony of the Games showing a Chinese volunteer telling her "welcome to China" with a sweet and kind gesture.Sun Zeyu, the volunteer who welcomed Maud, is from Tsinghua University. He told the Global Times that he did not expect that a simple greeting could be so touching. For Sun, the greeting was a natural expression of his excitement when seeing athletes from all over the world gathering in Beijing, but for Maud, it was the cutest thing, worth crying about over and over again."We practiced for months for the opening ceremony, but when the day came, the director told us to just follow our hearts and express our real feelings. So, we all moved and danced freely in the exciting atmosphere," Sun said.Maud said she watched the video she made of the opening ceremony over and over again and cried because it was the cutest thing ever. Sun said that after watching the vlog, he felt very happy as it was a valuable recording of his experience as a Beijing 2022 volunteer. "After hearing Tessa say that she was so touched and cried over the warm greeting, I was touched too. I never thought such a simple interaction, a simple greeting, could have such a great power of touching people," Sun said.

Jamaica's skier Benjamin Alexander during a training session Photo: Courtesy of Stephen Shelesky Friendship across thousands of milesFor some athletes, the trip to Beijing for the Winter Olympic Games has been unforgettable as some special moments highlight sportsmanship, friendship and solidarity, some of the qualities the world needs the most amid the COVID-19 pandemic. It has also shown how destiny ties people together, especially those who are living thousands of miles away from each other.Jamaica's first Olympic alpine skier, Benjamin Alexander, is one of the foreign athletes who made a new Chinese friend in China through a painting. Hou Jiaqi, a second-grade student in Changchun, capital city of Northeast China's Jilin Province, drew a picture inspired by the Winter Olympics which was then selected as a gift for the athletes. Recently, the Chinese student received a thank-you message from the Jamaican athlete."I thought it was awesome to receive something that was hand drawn for me. That was a lot more important than receiving the Samsung phone or all of the products that everyone else was posting about," Alexander told the Global Times on Saturday. He said the fact that someone had taken the time to create something personal for him was so special.It was also surprising for Hou's parents as the athlete replied to the act of kindness."I am the Jamaican skier! Thank you so much for your art, I love it. I hope you get to watch me race next Sunday, February 13, and get to try some skiing yourself one day. Enjoy the Olympics!" said an email sent by Alexander to Hou. The picture the student drew shows four athletes speed skating. For the Jamaican athlete, it was also absolutely amazing to communicate with a Chinese child and inspire him to become involved in winter sports.

Photo of Mateusz Sochowicz with Chinese doctors and nurses in hospital in Beijing on Nov. 9, 2021. (Xinhua via Beijing 2022 Organizing Committee) Fall in love with Chinese During the Winter Olympics, the Peking University Third Hospital provided medical services to some 200 athletes, and many wrote thank-you notes for Chinese medical staff in different languages and praised them in social media for offering great care. Among them, Polish luger Mateusz Sochowicz inspired many for his return to the track for the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games after suffering a serious injury less than three months ago. His treatment in Beijing saved his Olympic dreams and helped him to better understand Chinese people. When he was sent to the Peking University Third Hospital (Yanqing) with a bone fracture on November 8, 2021, he told the doctor he did not like Chinese people because he did not understand their behavior and language. But after he got to know them, he felt the great care they offered and changed his opinion. He visited the hospital again when he returned to Beijing for the Winter Olympics, expressing his thanks to the medical staff. He said he still keeps in touch with the doctor who looked after him.  

Volunteers clean the ice rink during an ice hockey competition in Wukesong Arena on February 12, 2022. Photo: VCG20 days with the IOC chief "The two Games witnessed a more self-confident, calm and determined China, and that is what I also became after staying with the very dedicated, genial and wise President Bach for 20 days," said Chinese volunteer Wu Yixuan, who accompanied the President of the International Olympic Committee, Thomas Bach, during the Beijing 2022 Winter Games.Wu, a young teacher at the Law School of the Beijing Foreign Studies University, told the Global Times that she was deeply touched by the fighting spirit of Paralympic athletes when watching one event during the 2008 Beijing Summer Games, and applied for the position to serve Bach without hesitation when the recruitment of volunteers for the Winter Games began.Wu said that, despite making full preparations before her service as a volunteer, she still encountered some difficulties due to Bach's extremely busy daily schedule.In addition to translating and reporting on his daily activities to Chinese staffers in charge of transportation and Olympic venue management, Wu also had to accompany Bach at the unveiling ceremony of the truce mural, the Olympic opening ceremony, sporting events, various awards ceremonies, press conferences, as well as the plenary session of the International Olympic Committee."One of the deepest impressions he left on me is that he was so dedicated, and dealt with all his work and treated everyone he met with full enthusiasm and great energy," Wu stressed, adding that "at the same time, he cared about the people around him. He often asked me to confirm if I, the driver and the security staff had meals or had warm places to stay."

Gido Tsujioka, an announcer from Japan's NTV, has an online talk with Cao Xue, head of the Beijing 2022 mascot design team on Tuesday. Photos: Courtesy of Wang Tao Bing Dwen Dwen's No.1 fanEveryone loves Bing Dwen Dwen, the Beijing 2022 Olympic mascot, a playful panda wearing an icy shell. But Bing Dwen Dwen's number one fan would probably be Gido Tsujioka, an announcer from Japan's NTV. Tsujioka has earned himself a new name "Gido Dwen Dwen" after a sequence of video clips went viral on the Chinese internet with him during live broadcasts "showing off" his collection of Bing Dwen Dwen badges, meeting Bing Dwen Dwen in person, and excitedly introducing Bing Dwen Dwen to Japanese audience.According to Tsujioka, Bing Dwen Dwen has "saved his life" because on his arrival in Beijing, he left his jacket on the plane and was feeling down. At that very moment, he saw the adorable Bing Dwen Dwen and was comforted in one second."I fell in love with Bing Dwen Dwen at first sight," he said. "No matter how tired, whenever I see Bing Dwen Dwen, I feel motivated […] With Bing Dwen Dwen, I do not feel cold without my jacket," he told the Global Times.Now, Tsujioka has eight Bing Dwen Dwen badges hanging on his press card besides a Bing Dwen Dwen T-shirt and many other Bing Dwen Dwen souvenirs he bought, including a scarf and clothes.He has sent back a parcel full of Bing Dwen Dwen souvenirs back to Japan to introduce the charm of the Olympic mascot to more Japanese people.

Gold medalist Su Yiming (left) of China hugs bronze medalist Canada's Max Parrot after the men's snowboard big air final of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics at Big Air Shougang in Beijing on February 15, 2022. Photo: VCG From cancer patient to Olympic champion "I went through hell but I am grateful for the cancer battle," said Canadian snowboarder Max Parrot, who started riding when he was 9. He was diagnosed with a cancer called Hodgkin's lymphoma in December 2018 and had to put his snowboard in the closet for the first time ever. Feeling like a lion in a cage, the Pyeongchang 2018 slopestyle Olympic silver medalist announced that he had beaten the illness in July 2019, after going through 12 rounds of chemotherapy.On February 7 in Beijing, the 26-year-old won the first gold of Team Canada in men's snowboard slopestyle. He told media in an interview that "three years ago, I was lying in a hospital bed with no strength, no muscle and not much cardio. Today, I am an Olympic gold medalist. This is the most important step of my life."Max's victory, with his persistence and optimistic spirit, inspires many people in China and around the world.  

Yuzuru Hanyu does warm-up before men's single skating free skating at the Beijing 2022 Olympic Games on Thursday morning. (Photo: Li Hao/GT) Heartthrob on iceJapan's two-time Olympic champion figure skater, Yuzuru Hanyu, thanked Chinese volunteers and fans during the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games, as millions of Chinese netizens witnessed the young athlete chasing his dream and pushing himself to the limit.When Hanyu appeared at the Capital Indoor Stadium to prepare for the figure skating gala exhibition, he was wearing a Bing Dwen Dwen hat, identical to Jin Boyang's, which has become another moment caught by the public as fans cheered for their beloved skater. Hanyu said he has received more than 20,000 letters from Chinese fans, as well as warm greetings from volunteers. He has also become an inspiring model for Chinese youngsters who recognized the beauty of ice sports through his performance.Yao Jiayue, a skating enthusiast from Shanghai and fan of Hanyu, said she likes Hanyu's artistic skating skills and indomitable character very much."I have been watching Hanyu's performances since high school. I always enjoy the elegant way he skates on the ice and controls the rhythm," Yao told the Global Times, adding that "his story of overcoming asthma and keeping up with his training and competing inspires me a lot."Yao believes that the spirit of sports and the Olympics transcend national boundaries. "We appreciate all the great athletes and their excellent performances, no matter whether they are from China, Japan, or other countries," said the 32-year-old.A father's love Yang Xinsi, a student in her third year at the Beijing Sport University, shared her story of a father's love.Yang said one day, Armenian journalist Astur Yesayants came up to her and her friend when they were on duty during the speed skating competition and asked if he could exchange a Bing Dwen Dwen pin with a heart-shaped pin. Yesayants told them he had left home for a long time, and his daughter loved Bing Dwen Dwen very much and he wanted to take the mascot home for her."We asked him if he had something else as we already had a heart pin. He rummaged through his bag and could not find anything. So, we refused to exchange and asked him instead to take a picture of our Bing Dwen Dwen pin and pendant for her daughter," Yang said.Yesayants sent the pictures to his daughter and she soon replied that she liked them very much. Yesayants looked again in his bag but only found some old and rusted badges. "At that moment, my friend and I got so touched. And I just thought that if my father was at his situation he would do the same for me. So, we decided to give him our pin and pendant without asking anything in exchange," Yang said.Yang said she was even more touched when Yasayants came back to give them some pins of the Armenian national flag. The small gift was a token of trust and kindness.Yang's story with the Armenian father was posted by her friend on Chinese social media, touching many netizens. The story proves that the meaning of exchanging a pin is delivering warmth to people, netizens said.Yang was also excited when she ran into a journalist from the USA Today who is also an NBA fan as she was wearing a pin of the Bucks. They had a friendly chat and later the journalist gave Yang all the things from the Bucks she had.