Photo taken on July 21, 2019 from Xiangshan Mountain shows the Taipei 101 skyscraper in Taipei, southeast China's Taiwan. (Xinhua/Zhu Xiang)The historical relationships between the People's Republic of China (PRC) and Somalia are traced way back to ancient time. This has enabled Somalia to hold China in high regard both as a partner and friend in its developmental agenda. Somalia also respects China's sovereignty, especially its one-China principle which has been held by the PRC for decades and implies that there is only one sovereign state of China; thus, by extension Taiwan is part of China and not a separate state.On February 9, the spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry elaborated the position of the Chinese government on a visit by Somaliland's officials to Taiwan.  The spokesperson is quoted as saying "There is only one China in the world, and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China. The one-China principle is a widely recognized norm governing international relations and the common consensus of the international community. The DPP authorities are not only seeking secession but also fanning the flames to undermine the independence and unification of other countries, harming others without benefiting themselves. They will only end up shooting themselves in the foot."It is all too obvious that the recent visit by a Northwestern Somalia (Somaliland) secessionist Kulmiye political party to Taiwan with intentions of selling Somaliland's secessionism ideology is an effort in futility since the one-China principle is universally recognized within international relationships. As a country, Somalia has gone through a lot and it is not ready to engage with highly corrupt institutions like Taiwan's ruling party, Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) which is dealing with selfish money-hungry individuals in Somaliland who have no regard for their citizens' interests. Taiwan's DPP has just made another blunder by engaging with a Somalia region that is similarly seeking recognition. It is like committing suicide since Somaliland is a part of Somalia that used to be under the British Protectorate and does not support secession. In their response to Elham Garaad, a letter dated February 15, 2022, the United Kingdom (UK) advised Somaliland to reach an agreement with the rest of Somalia and be acceptable to the regional states and the rest of the African Union. This is a clear implication that the UK recognizes the UN's Charter on Sovereignty, Independence and Unification of States. It should therefore be noted that the engagement of the Taiwan Ruling Party, i.e., the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) with proponents of Somaliland secession will simply lead to:Bringing Instability and Insecurity in Somalia.Undermining Peace and Stability of Somalia.Taiwan interfering with Somalia's internal affairs, independence and unification against the UN Charter and relevant international agreements.Unfortunately, this could be good news for only a few in Somaliland with deep pockets, which could be a curse on the welfare and development of the common people. That's why we must say NO to secessionists and their absurd actions.The author is former Federal Republic of Somalia Ambassador to the People's Republic of China. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn