Members of Team China enter the National Stadium for the closing ceremony on February 20, 2022. Photo: XinhuaEveryone is amazing! It's the dedication of 21 million people of Beijing who jointly presented the world a streamlined, safe, and wonderful Olympic event and wrote a new historical chapter of the first city to host both the Summer and Winter Olympics, the Beijing municipal government released a letter of thanks to the residents on Monday morning after the 17-day 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics lowered its curtain. The successful hosting of the Winter Olympics is a solemn commitment from a prosperous, open, and confident China to the international community, and another warm embrace of the Olympic sports by more than 21 million people in the capital, the letter of thanks said. The letter was signed by Beijing municipal government and the Beijing Organizing Committee for the 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games. Holding the vision of being open, sharing, and honest, Beijing together with Zhangjiakou, overcame risks and challenges brought by COVID-19 and presented the world a streamlined, safe, and wonderful Olympic event, showing China as a sunny, prosperous, open, and hopeful country, it said. "When we look back at the competition, we will remember the breakthroughs and surprises the athletes had made, and we will remember the lovable and respectable you. Residents silently contributed to the Winter Olympics on the occasion of family gathering in the Chinese New Year of the Tiger. It is your dedication that has jointly written a new historical chapter of the 'Dual Olympic City.'''The letter thanked the hospitality of the working staff and volunteers who attended the Olympic Games. It thanked the medical staff for guarding the epidemic defense line of the city during the sport event. Efforts made by police officers, armed forces, grass-root officials, community and sanitation workers, personnel working in buses and subways as well as those of all residents in the city were recognized. Beijing residents understand the big picture and cooperate with the temporary management measures during the Olympics. Their actions demonstrate a "warm, cheerful, open, positive and helpful" image of Beijing residents in the era. "Everyone is amazing," the letter said. The Winter Paralympics are about to start. The letter of thanks in the end reminded the public to keep their spirits up and make persistent efforts, with the greatest enthusiasm and best efforts to hold the Winter Paralympics. Global Times