A scene from the chapter four of the exhibition Photo: Courtesy of U2 by UCCA Alice: Curiouser and Curiouser, a new art collaboration between two of the world's leading art organizations, the UCCA Center for Contemporary Art in China and the Victoria and Albert Museum (V&A) in the UK, debuted in Beijing on Monday. The new exhibition is a guided pop art exploration of the classic Alice in Wonderland. It is comprised of five chapters covering 300 artworks to show visitors how the 160-year-old story has been influenced by modern culture.   "We look forward to sharing the creative process and the global cultural influence of the Alice story with Chinese audiences," Kate Bailey, senior curator and producer of V&A, told media. "Chinese audiences are welcome to follow us into Alice's extraordinary adventurous world, imaging their own world on the other side of the mirror." The counterpart to the new interpretation of Alice's story first debuted at the V&A in London, one of the UK's most well-known large art museums. The UCCA's U2 art museum is the first stop on the exhibition's global tour.U2 will celebrate the show at its opening exhibition. The art venue is a fresh brand for the UCCA Center for Contemporary Art that aims to become a new cultural hub in the city that can enrich people's cultural consumption in the post-pandemic period.The museum will be the first professional art organization to enter one of Beijing's popular shopping centers, the Chaoyang Joy City mall, where it will be located on the top floor. "We believe that art has value when one experiences it. This move has clearly broken the boundaries on where we choose to establish art venues. Such new art hubs can diversify our daily experience of culture," said Su Li, an independent art entrepreneur in Shanghai, told the Global Times. "From now on, young users can experience world-class art, entertainment and cultural consumption in Beijing's landmark commercial center," Xu Ning, CEO of U2, told media. The Alice: Curiouser and Curiouser exhibition is set to run until June 11.