Photo: Screenshot of Spanish skier Thibault Magnin’s Instagram profile. Many international athletes for the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics have been speaking out loud their exciting and fulfilling life in China through videos that piled on praises for thoughtful arrangement at Olympic venues, depicted their thrill of trying out new training facilities in the venues and learning Chinese traditions such as calligraphy, and their videos have gone viral in China with many commenting that their pure happiness is an acknowledgement of China’s efforts in holding the Games as well as in epidemic prevention and control. Among them, Spanish skier Thibault Magnin became popular for his video of him making somersaults before lying on his back and sliding from the Big Air Shougang.Big Air Shougang, the venue for freestyle and snowboard big air events, is a ski jump platform built on top of a former steel mill, which was shut down more than 10 years ago. It is the only snow event venue in downtown Beijing. Chinese netizens said Magnin was “as happy as a kid when seeing the ski jump platform,” and some said “foreign athletes like him can only be such happy when they are in China, as China is the safest place in the world in terms of COVID-19 prevention and control.”

Photo: Screenshot of Spanish skier Thibault Magnin’s Instagram profile.  Magnin told the Global Times on Saturday that he has heard that he was going viral on Chinese social media with the video and “I feel good and relaxed because I’m just so happy to be here.”He said it’s his childhood dream to attend the Olympics and attending it especially in China “is a crazy experience.”He hopes to entertain Chinese people with more videos and his performance at the Olympic Games and to “bring a medal home for Spain,” he said. Like many other foreign athletes, Magnin is enjoying life at the Olympic village where he can trade pins and meet with best athletes in the world. “The play arena is so fun and a good place to meet with friends. The gym is also very nice. Probably my two favorite places,” he said. The Olympic village houses about 1,000 athletes and team officials from 44 countries and regions. In addition to quality accommodation services, the complex also has fitness, entertainment and health care facilities. Many athletes were also amazed by the advanced technology used in remotely controlled beds and the robots in the canteens. As for the COVID-19 rules participants have to follow, Magnin said the safety protocols were really well done and pretty easy. “You actually feel really safe everywhere,” he said.“And thanks to China and Olympics for all the work and for having us in this beautiful country,” Magnin said.