National flags of China and Argentina Photo: VCGChinese President Xi Jinping met on Sunday with Argentine President Alberto Fernandez in Beijing. The two heads of state had a warm, friendly and fruitful meeting. Fernandez is in Beijing to attend the opening ceremony of the Beijing Olympic Winter Games.  The year 2021 marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Argentina. Xi noted in the meeting that for half a century, the two countries have always understood and supported each other. In the face of the COVID-19 epidemic, China and Argentina have been helping each other, setting an example of solidarity and cooperation among emerging markets.Xi stressed that China is willing to support each other's legitimate claims with Argentina in safeguarding sovereignty, security and development interests. The two countries should build the "Belt and Road Initiative" with high quality, give full play to their complementary advantages and deepen cooperation in various fields.Following the meeting, China and Argentina released a joint statement on deepening the comprehensive strategic partnership and signed a series of documents for further cooperation. Xi and Fernandez reviewed the achievements of China-Argentina relations since the establishment of diplomatic relations, and highly valued the continuous and in-depth development. The two heads of state agreed to continuously enhance mutual trust, strengthen exchanges and cooperation, and deepen local exchanges and cooperation within the framework of celebrating 50 years of diplomatic relations, according to the joint statement. China and Argentina have reaffirmed their continued strong mutual support on issues involving each other's sovereign interests. Argentina will continue to adhere to the one-China principle and China will continue to support Argentina's demand for the full exercise of sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, as well as the resumption of negotiations as soon as possible with a focus on the peaceful settlement of the dispute and in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions.The two sides agreed to enhance bilateral trade cooperation and continue to expand trade, promote financial support for the settlement of China's exports to Argentina and actively encourage the promotion of trade diversification.The two sides also signed cooperation documents in the fields of green development, digital economy, aerospace, BeiDou Navigation Satellite System, science and technology innovation, education and university cooperation. Argentina has deep and friendly feelings for the Chinese people and is proud of the great achievements of the bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the 50 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations, said Fernandez. "Yesterday, I visited the Museum of the Communist Party of China [CPC]. I pay high tribute to the CPC for all it has done and the great achievements it has made for the Chinese people," said Fernandez.The Argentine president said he was happy to celebrate the Chinese New Year with the Chinese people and witness the splendid opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. The two leaders announced the launch of the Year of China-Argentina Friendship and?Cooperation to actively promote bilateral exchanges in the fields of culture, education, sports, media and youth.Fernandez congratulated China on its role as host and for working with all parties to present a successful Olympics to the world, for which China expressed its gratitude.He also expressed his heartfelt thanks to President Xi and the Chinese government and people for their warm and friendly reception during his visit. Global Times