The victim, a woman surnamed Yang, of a human trafficking case in Xuzhou, East China's Jiangsu Province, receives treatment in hospital. Photo: A screenshot from Sina Weibo A total of 17 people have been punished or put under investigation in a high-profile case involving a woman suspected of being trafficked in Fengxian county, East China's Jiangsu Province, the provincial authorities announced Wednesday, following a video showing the woman was found chained and locked in a hut went viral. Among them, Lou Hai, Party chief of Fengxian, has been removed from his post, and Zheng Chunwei, head of the county government, has been demanded to resign, according to a report issued by an investigation team of the Jiangsu Provincial Committee of the Communist Party of China and the provincial government of Jiangsu.The victim, surnamed Yang, whose childhood name is Xiao Huamei born in a village in Southwest China's Yunnan Province in 1977, was alleged trafficked and began living with a man surnamed Dong in Fengxian in June 1998.Over the years, Xiaohuamei gave birth to eight children. She is diagnosed with schizophrenia, a mental disease, and serious periodontitis. She is currently in hospital receiving treatment, accompanied by local officials and her oldest son, according to the announcement of the investigation results.Yang's underage children are also being taken care of by a caring team organized by local authorities, the announcement noted.Her husband surnamed Dong was arrested on Tuesday on suspicion of abusing her. Dong has been accused of, since 2017, chaining and abusing Yang every time she had a seizure. Further investigation into his alleged purchase of the trafficked woman is ongoing.  A woman surnamed Sang and a man surnamed Shi were arrested on suspicion of abducting and trafficking women, according to the announcement. Several others suspected of being involved in the trafficking case were also subject to criminal coercive measures, it said. The case revealed problems and loopholes at the grass-root levels in the province in terms of protecting women and children's rights and helping and caring special groups, read the announcement. The investigation is based on visits to 4,600 people and a review of more than 1,000 documents and materials in Jiangsu, Yunnan and Central China's Henan.The case showed a few local Party members and officials do not place people in the first place, have serious problems of formalism and bureaucratism, the announcement said, noting that Jiangsu Province has launched a specialized campaign to crack down on violations of rights of women, children and people with mental issues or disabilities. The case of Yang caught public attention in January as a video of her being chained in a rural house in a cold weather went viral on Chinese social media.