Xu Mengtao competes in the women's aerials on February 14, 2022. Photo: Cui Meng/Global Times Chinese skier Xu Mengtao won the gold medal in the women's aerials of freestyle skiing event on Monday night, and another skier Kong Fanyu also advanced to the final, sparking celebrations on social media.The gold medal lifted China to seventh on the medal tally with five gold medals, three silver medals and two bronze medals. This equals China's all-time best in the Winter Olympics. China's previous best haul of gold medals was five at the 2010 Vancouver Games, when they also claimed two silvers and four bronzes.As the top six would qualify for the finals in Round 1, 31-year-old Xu, who is making her fourth Olympic appearance, secured her spot with 108.61 points to rank first among the six skiers.Hanna Huskova from Belarus got the silver with 107.95 points and US skier Megan Nick claimed the bronze with a score of 93.76 points.After challenging the top degree of difficulty Back full-full-full, 28-year-old Kong fell on the snow when landing and ranked sixth with a score of 59.67 points.Ashley Caldwell, a freeskier of the Team US, congratulated Xu after she perfectly completed the move with other competitors, saying she is proud of Xu.Xu and Caldwell, competitors but friends, hugged each other.The experienced skier was so excited after knowing her score and repeatedly asked if she ranked first.Confirming her win, Xu shouted, "I won at home!" which made many Chinese spectators cry. "Happy Valentine's Day!" she said, not forgetting the special day."I hope to create more history, and be a pioneer for the Chinese people in this area."  In the Final 1, Xu and Kong ranked second and third, respectively, advancing to the Final 2.The two Chinese athletes have ­become the new favorites on social media."Her dream came true! I am so happy for her!" a Sina Weibo user said.More netizens were proud of Team China and were touched by Xu's endeavors as well as her sports spirit, considering it was a perfect result for the experienced skier, a multi-time gold medalist in the World Cup of women's aerials who has waited for an Olympic gold medal for 16 years."She deserves the best," another netizen wrote.Some netizens also saw the hug ­between Xu and Caldwell and were moved by their cross-boundary friendship."Girls' friendship is the best shot tonight! I heard the US athlete calling Xu Mengtao Olympic champion. This is the real Olympic spirit, pure and warm," a netizen commented.Xu won a silver medal with other two male skiers, Jia Zongyang and Qi Guangpu, in the mixed team aerial freestyle skiing with a score of 324.22. The three twisted and turned in the air, turning in a solid performance despite pressure from Team USA who beat them with a score of 338.34."I fully understand and affirm the performance of my teammate under the circumstances. My teammates did the most correct way to deal with air skills. The accident of air skills is very large, so we needed to settle down immediately and learn from the lessons of this competition," Xu said after the team competition after Jia fell when landing. Xu made a brilliant start, scoring the highest at 106.03 points of all four female skiers in the first jump.Xu ruptured her ligament in her right knee when landing during the 2007 National Championships, spending the rest of the season in rehabilitation. She didn't tell her parents about her injury until more than two years later.Netizens did not forget Kong who, though she failed, touched people with her courage to challenge the top degree of difficulty."She has unlimited possibilities," one Sina Weibo user commented.Kong debuted in the 2010 World Cup in Beida Lake and was a bronze medalist in aerials at the Pyeongchang 2018 Olympic Winter Games.Kong was injured in training, rupturing her left knee joint and ­suffering other injuries.