Trucks wait for the road to the Ambassador Bridge border crossing in Windsor, Canada to reopen on February 8, 2022, after protesters against a vaccination mandate blocked the road the previous night. Approximately $323 million worth of goods cross the Windsor-Detroit border each day. Photo: VCGCanadian demonstrators led by truckers angry over COVID-19 restrictions defied police and kept occupying a key bridge Saturday, while thousands more rallied in the capital as a two-week-old protest showed no signs of abating.In Ontario, where authorities have declared a state of emergency, the provincial supreme court had ordered truckers to end their blockade of the strategic Ambassador Bridge, which links the city of Windsor in Canada to Detroit, Michigan in the US. The protest has forced major automakers in both countries to halt or scale back production and Washington on Friday urged Ottawa to use its federal powers to end the blockade.Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau promised "an increasingly robust police intervention."Canadian police, backed by armored vehicles, began clearing the bridge, taking down tents erected in traffic lanes and persuading some drivers to move their trucks. But by Saturday evening, after hours of facing off against the demonstrators, the police had not completely cleared the span. Most of the cars and trucks blocking it were removed but hundreds of people refused to budge.Windsor police spokesman Jason Bellaire said the aim was to clear the bridge peacefully, but he could not say if it would be cleared by the end of the day. There were no immediate reports of arrests Saturday. The Ambassador Bridge is vital to the US and Canadian auto industries, carrying more than 25 percent of merchandise exported by both countries. Two other US-Canada border crossings, one in Manitoba province and one in Alberta, remain blocked by protests.In Ottawa, crowds of thousands packed the streets of the city center, the epicenter of the movement, blaring horns, playing music, dancing and drinking hot coffee. Anti-Trudeau signs and chants have become common along the clogged Ottawa streets. Political opponents say the prime minister has been far too slow to bring the protests to an end.The demonstrations have inspired copycat protests that are now spreading around the globe, including to France, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Australia.Paris police fired tear gas and issued hundreds of fines on Saturday to break up a convoy of vehicles that attempted to block traffic in a protest over coronavirus restrictions and rising living costs.AFP