Photo: Swiss snowboarder Nicolas HuberAlthough the facilities and accommodations in the Olympic Village have been repeatedly praised by visiting athletes, regarding the questions some athletes raised over the quarantine conditions within the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics' closed loop, the organizers responded on Monday that they are providing full support for the athletes' conditions and have been taking measures to address existing issues.The organizers said that they had a call with athletes on Sunday to discuss living conditions at quarantine hotels. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) is also aware of the complaints and is addressing the issues. IOC sports director Kit McConnell said at Monday's press conference that the IOC was working to improve collective and individual issues experienced by the impacted athletes, noting the number of positive cases is decreasing. McConnell said the quarantine facilities have largely met expectations, and they are having conversations to address some challenging issues. "The protocols have been put in place to ensure safe Olympic Games for everyone," media reported, citing a statement released by the IOC. "All the cases are managed in full accordance with the rules stated in the Playbooks and in the adjustments which were made to the protocols."The meals of Russian biathlon competitor Valeria Vasnetsova, who had claimed to be offered bad food under quarantine, have vastly improved, according to the Russian delegation, reported NPR.Belgian skeleton racer Kim Meylemans, who complained about the isolation system, was later transported back to the Olympic village to undergo the rest of her quarantine, where she said she felt safe and she will be able to train a little better here, according to the Associated Press.  Dirk Schimmelpfennig, the head of Germany's delegation who complained about Germany's Eric Frenzel in (the) Nordic combined, (who) underwent unreasonable quarantine conditions, also said on Sunday that organizers had responded quickly to their concerns for the athlete. "Every time there is an issue we have a very good network to relay info and address the problem as swiftly as we can," said the Olympic Games executive director Christophe Dubi, addressing Frenzel's situation. The Chinese Foreign Ministry also responded that the Beijing 2022 Organizing Committee implemented the necessary epidemic prevention and control measures in accordance with the Games' Playbook. "The Games aims to effectively protect the health of all Olympic personnel and the people of the host city, minimize the risk of epidemics, and ensure that the competition is held safely and smoothly as scheduled," Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at Monday's routine news conference, noting the measures were highly recognized by all parties at home and abroad, including the World Health Organization (WHO)."China, as the host, is committed to providing meticulous and considerate services and convenience for athletes from all countries," he said. Although some negative voices have emerged, the overall living conditions in the Olympic Villages and at the quarantine sites have been repeatedly praised by visiting athletes. A number of overseas athletes told the Global Times that they are satisfied with the conditions, which are better than their previous experience at other Olympics.US bobsledder Carlo Valdes told the Global Times earlier that the Olympics in Yanqing has been awesome, noting that the facilities are great and that the staff have done a great job. Czech ice dancer Natalie Taschlerova said that she almost cried when receiving gifts from the Organizing Committee. "The rooms are amazing… and everything is so clean… They [Village staff] are keeping everyone safe," she said. Athletes need to take daily tests, which are not comfortable, but Taschlerova said the purpose is to ensure everyone is safe, enabling them to compete at the Games. Some athletes who have tested positive and undergone quarantine and have entered close contact management told the Global Times they were taken care of well. Swiss snowboarder Nicolas Huber, who tested positive upon arrival and was immediately transported to a quarantine hotel, told the Global Times previously that he had been being taking care of amazingly, and that the Chinese staff were really nice. "I get food by using the phone, or mostly my physical therapist brings me food," Huber said, without complaining about the food supply. He also posted videos of himself working out and dancing in the quarantine room, which soon went viral on Chinese social media. Mark Chanloung, a Thai athlete in cross-country skiing, was once deemed as a close contact. He said his stay in Beijing has been really good, particularly referring to the good food. "As I am in the close contact management program, I am restricted from going around. But I can still train in the venue," he said. "It didn't really affect my daily routine as an athlete."Observers noted that it has been several weeks since the Winter Olympics-related personnel arrived in Beijing and that the Games have in fact been proven successful.It can be seen through the athletes' numerous posts praising the Games on social media - The Organizing Committee's welcoming gift bags, mascots, Chinese New Year gifts, and accommodations, all are recorded by the athletes and shared with the public.Organization of major events cannot be flawless, but the fact that some Western media, even mainstream media, often choose to amplify the negative while leaving the bigger successes unreported is regrettably biased, said observers.Several reporters who are covering the Games within the closed loop told the Global Times on Monday that their daily meals and accommodations are guaranteed, and media break rooms in the media center and venues provide a wide range of meals to meet daily needs. "Compared with previous major sport events, the food and accommodation conditions are basically equal," a reporter said on condition of anonymity. "Considering it is achieved under such strict conditions of epidemic prevention regulations, it is more impressive."