Gu Ailing reacts during the competition on February 8. Photo: Li Hao/Global TimesChina's highly anticipated skier Gu Ailing, also known as Eileen Gu, claimed a ­historic gold in the women's freeski big air at the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games at Big Air Shougang on Tuesday with a combined score of 188.25 points to place ahead of Tess Ledeux of France in silver medal position and Mathilde Gremaud of Switzerland who took Bronze.  The precious gold is regarded as a historic achievement as it is China's first women's Olympic gold medal in snow sports. Commentators said the gold will bring a ­psychological advantage for Gu in her next two events, the women's freeski slopestyle and women's freeski halfpipe skiing, which are her favored events. Gu finished fifth in the preliminary round on Monday to advance to the final. Some ­commentators played down expectations as freeski big air is not Gu's strongest event in the sport.In the first two rounds of the final, Gu placed third with a narrow 0.25-point ­disadvantage, giving her a good score for a podium finish. Ledeux continued her dominance with a switch left-side 1440 Japan grab of 93.00 points to still lead the rankings in the second run.On her final run, Gu nailed a left-side ­double cork 1620, with unprecedented ­difficulty to become the second female athlete ever to land the trick after Ledeux, receiving a race-high 94.50 points, vaulting her into gold-medal winning position with a lead of 0.75 points on Ledeux. Ledeux failed to improve on her score with a flaw on the landing.

Gu Ailing competes in the women's freeski big air final at the Beijing Winter Olympics on February 8. Photo: Li Hao/Global TimesBeijing has provided excellent conditions with good weather over the past few days, with perfect visibility, light and wind, bringing out the best in the competitors, a Beijing-based sports commentator told the Global Times on Tuesday. Gu is likely to show more dominance at women's freeski slopestyle and women's freeski halfpipe skiing, which she is better at, Luo Le, a Beijing-based sport commentator, told the Global Times on Tuesday. She is still young and has a long career ahead of her to win more individual events other than the Olympics, said Luo. However, the commentator said that people should avoid placing too much pressure on the freestyle skier, as she has already made Olympic history.  The gold medal has already matched public expectations, and the greater effect is to inspire more people to participate in ice and snow sports, Luo said. By the start of the Games, 346 million ­Chinese people had participated in ice and snow sports. China has achieved its goal of engaging 300 million people in winter sports ahead of schedule.