Wang Wenbin, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Photo: fmprc.gov.cnClick here to stay tuned with our live updates on Ukraine tensions. Chinese Foreign Ministry on Monday refuted allegations from the US that the US had repeatedly informed China of Russia's preparation for military operation in Ukraine and urged China to step in but was rebuffed and said it firmly opposes the US' fabrication of information to slander China.Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Wang Wenbin said at the regular press conference on Monday that he noticed that Thomas Friedman, a US expert on international issues, and Tulsi Gabbard, a former member of the US House of Representatives  have criticized China's role in the Ukraine crisis and stressed that the US should reflect on its own behavior. China has always decided its own position and policy based on the merits of the matter itself and has always stood on the side of peace, cooperation and justice, he said. He noted that Chinese President Xi Jinping recently talked over the phone with Russian President Vladimir Putin, French President Emmanuel Macron and other leaders, pointing out that China supports the settlement of the Ukraine crisis through negotiation and calling on all parties to seek a comprehensive solution to the issue through dialogue and consultation.State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi also held phone talks with foreign ministers and politicians, emphasizing that the Cold War mentality should be abandoned and the legitimate security concerns of all sides should be respected. Ukraine should function as a bridge between the East and the West, not as a frontier in big power confrontation, said Wang Wenbin. Unlike some countries who create, shift and profit from Ukraine crisis, China hopes all parties can work together to cool down the tension, not add fuel to the fire, and promote a diplomatic solution instead of further escalating the situation, he said. The New York Times reported on Friday that some US officials said the US had "presented intelligence showing Russia's troop buildup around Ukraine and beseeched the Chinese to tell Russia not to invade" during six high-level meetings with Chinese officials. But the Chinese side "rebuffed" them every time, and later "shared the information with Russia" and assured Russia that China would not try to impede Russia's plans, the report claimed.  China has always adhered to the principle that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected and upheld, said Wang Wenbin. China always believes that there is a complex historical background and context on the Ukraine issue and understands Russia's legitimate security concerns, and maintains that a balanced, effective and sustainable European security mechanism should be finally established through dialogue and negotiation, he said.