Baise railway station suspended operations due to the latest flare-up. Photo: CFPDebao county in Baise, South China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, on Tuesday issued a notice to further strengthen COVID-19 prevention management, asking all residents to stay at home in order to curb the spread of COVID-19 amid the latest flare-up as the county recorded the most cases in the region.Guangxi reported 64 new locally transmitted COVID-19 cases on Monday, all in Baise, according to the authorities on Tuesday. Baise on Monday asked all its residents to stay at home with strict preventive measures. A total of 108 cases were reported in Guangxi in this round of flare-up, which began in Debao county. In Debao county, all personnel and vehicles are not allowed to move unless necessary; strict measures have been imposed and all highway intersections temporarily closed, while highway passenger transport services and private vehicle cross-regional transport have been suspended, according to the authorities.One person in each household can go to a designated place to purchase daily necessities under strict personal protection every two or three days. Residents who need medical treatment can register as required. For those that carry out special roles such as medical services, emergency rescue and epidemic prevention and control, related personnel and vehicles can move freely. Any residents at home that show symptoms of fever, coughing or other abnormal conditions, must report to the relevant working staff immediately, and the village will call an ambulance to transfer them to designated medical institutions for treatment.A total of 147,002 nucleic acid samples were tested on Monday for COVID-19 in Baise, including 30 samples that tested positive in Debao county. Debao county announced on Tuesday that it will conduct another round of county-wide nucleic acid tests for all residents and migrant workers. Those who fail to take a nucleic acid test once will be given a yellow "health code" while those who fail to take tests twice will be given a red health code. During the period, except for supermarkets, farmers markets, hospitals and pharmacies, all other businesses will be closed. All communities can establish "shopping groups" to provide delivery services for residents in need. Violators of the rules will be punished.Baise has sufficient commodity supplies, with 90 large supermarkets providing sufficient supplies and maintaining stable prices of daily necessities such as grain, oil, rice and noodles. It has 540 tons of emergency processed grain in reserve, 78,100 tons of grain in reserve and a pork supply for over three months, according to the authorities.