A construction site in Xiong'an Photo:VCGIn its pursuit of bringing happiness to the Chinese people and realizing the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, the CPC has led the Chinese people in creating a phenomenon of rapid economic development and long-term social stability rarely seen in the world. This has become one of the most exciting success stories of this era.From "ensuring adequate food and clothing supply" to "completing the construction of a moderately prosperous society in all respects," the work of the CPC has centered on one theme: Improving people's livelihoods.This high-quality development has had different meanings at different stages. Under the premise of the fourth industrial revolution, high-quality development should focus on the driving force of innovation in manufacturing, technology, and management mode, etc. At present, we have technologies such as the internet, the Internet of Things, and big data. The manifestation of high-quality development is different from that in the past, and we should pay more attention to the development of new models and new formats. As to the establishment of China's special economic zones in the new era, the goal of high-quality development is to stand on the commanding heights of the world. Special economic zones should not only be compared vertically with the past, but also horizontally compared to the world.The Xiong'an New Area, for example, established to phase out functions of the capital, strengthens exchanges between Beijing, Tianjin, and Hebei, and attracts higher-quality elements on a global scale. It is as important as the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone and the Pudong New Area, rather than a copy of the other two.Under the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic, the evolution of the changes unseen in the past 100 years has accelerated, and the external environment has become more complex, serious, and uncertain.The world today is undergoing profound changes unseen in a century. The international environment is becoming more and more complex, unstable, and uncertainties have increased significantly. The impact of the COVID-19 epidemic has been extensive and far-reaching, and the world has entered a period of turbulent changes. Unilateralism, protectionism, and hegemony also create critical threats to world peace and development. But the Chinese economy's long-term positive fundamentals have not changed; the momentum of the sustained economic recovery has not changed and the characteristics of huge development potential, resilience, and a wide space for growth have not changed. Against the sluggish global economy, China's economy on the whole has maintained strong resilience.We must unswervingly do what we do well and continue to strengthen this economic foundation. By taking practical steps to implement the decisions and arrangements by the CPC Central Committee, we have the confidence to welcome the successful convening of CPC's 20th National Congress with excellent results in the second half of this year.The article was written based on an interview with Bai Ming, deputy director of the international market research institute at the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation