A resident from Hefei, capital of East China's Anhui Province, takes nucleic acid testing on June 27, 2022. Photo: IC China reported 112 confirmed COVID-19 cases on Monday, including 43 imported cases and 69 domestic cases, said National Health Commission on Tuesday.The country also reported 306 asymptomatic virus carriers on the same day.Among the new infections recorded, 52 confirmed cases and 164 silent virus carriers were from Sixian, East China's Anhui Province, an area in the spotlight for recently reporting nearly 900 infections in the course of about one week, affecting at least 12 cities in the Yangtze Delta region.     At a press conference on Monday, local authorities said that they had already conducted six rounds of mass nucleic acid testing in Sixian and the results showed that the infections discovered in communities were gradually declining. A seventh round of mass nucleic acid testing was then conducted on Monday. Sixian health authorities said that all the cases had been transferred to designated sites for treatment. It has required local residents to continue to stay static unless mobility is necessary and demanded residents to undergo nucleic acid testing.The Yanqing district in Beijing reported a gathering outbreak in a local hotel on Monday. An employee of the hotel was found positive after returning from overseas to Beijing via Shanghai. The employee had completed quarantine after entering China. The other two cases found at the same location are colleagues working in the same hotel.   Northwest China's Shaanxi Province also reported seven confirmed cases and two asymptomatic virus carriers in the city of Xi'an on Monday. Two more high-risk areas have been identified in the city, making the local high-risk areas add up to three.  The Macao Special Administrative Region also reported 89 infections on Monday. Since June 18  the region had reported a total of 941 infections.Macao is now conducting a fourth round of mass nucleic acid testing that started on Monday. As of 8 am on Tuesday, 488,638 samples had been collected and 388,563 of them had turned out to be negative while 42 tubes of mixed samples turned out to be positive, media reported. Global Times