Artists of the New Art Chinese Chamber Orchestra Photo: Courtesy of MISA The 2022 Music in the Summer Air (MISA) is set to kick off on July 20 in Shanghai. Bringing vibrant cultural scenes to Shanghai, the event will be the first symphonic gala held in the city since it came out of the shadow brought by the COVID-19. "Beginning" is the event's main theme. During the music season, more than 40 diverse performances will be offered to audiences at three main venues -the Jaguar Shanghai Symphony Hall, the Shanghai Urban Music Lawn and the TRI third space - and the event's online platform.  Highlighted performances include "Solveig's Song" from the Peer Gynt suites and Gustav Mahler's Titan (Symphony No.1 in D major) by the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra with lead conductor and performer Yu Long and Zhu Huiling, a mezzo-soprano, during the opening ceremony at Jaguar Shanghai Symphony Hall.  The Shanghai Urban Music Lawn will host exciting open-air performances from the New Art Chinese Chamber Orchestra, the Guangzhou Symphony Orchestra, the Gentle Pie Brass Quintet and the Jin Yukuang and the Neo-Classical Chamber Orchestra.Events are free and will be simultaneously streamed online for fans who cannot make it to the shows. Besides "offline" events, the festival will also hold online events that show how China has embraced international symphonic culture. For instance, Dutch conductor Jaap van Zweden will collaborate with the Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra to perform Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini, Op. 43. The Royal Philharmonic Orchestra in the UK and the New York Philharmonic in the US will also take part in MISA's online shows. An annual event first launched in 2010 in a tent in a parking lot, MISA has expanded over time through the support of classical music fans in China. The season has always been dedicated to promoting symphonic culture through music. The music season in Shanghai is only one of the many cultural events that are returning to the city and bringing encouragement to people after pauses due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The music season is scheduled to end on July 30. 

Promotional materials of the 2022 Music in the Summer Air event Photo: Courtesy of MISA 


Artists of the Gentle Pie Brass Quintet Photo: Courtesy of MISA