Visitors take photos at the Narat scenic spot in Xinyuan County, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, June 28, 2022. (Xinhua/Hao Jianwei)The booming of tourism in China’s Xinjiang region with more domestic and Chinese tourists showed that more people are seeing through the lies and the tricks by anti-China forces from the US and the West, Xu Guixiang, spokesperson of the Xinjiang regional government, said in a press conference on Friday. Recently, Xinjiang has become a hot tourist destination. In June, the region marked 23 million trips, an increase of 66 percent from May, and tourism revenue reached 17.4 billion yuan ($ 2.5 billion), an increase of 89 percent from the previous month, according to data released on Friday. The booming of tourism in the region benefits from the social stability, effective prevention measures and multiple preferential policies , Elijan Anayat,  spokesperson of the Xinjiang regional government, said at the conference. 

Tourists pose for photos in lavender fields in Sigong Village, Huocheng County of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, June 22, 2022. Photo:XinhuaImages of the traffic congestion along the Duku highway have gone viral on China’s social media with many joking about the great number of people that swarmed into the region to enjoy the gorgeous, magnificent landscapes along the highways. On July 9, there were 28,000 vehicles on the Duku highway, five times the designed capacity of the road. To solve the traffic congestion, local governments along the roads have taken measures to ensure the safety of visitors and helped with evacuations, Elijan noted.Xu Guixiang, another spokesperson of the regional government noted that the region’s brand has become known in recent years despite the smearing from the US and some Western countries. With the peak in tourism, more Chinese and foreign visitors have come to the region to see its social development and the happy lives of local residents.The lies made by anti-China forces on Xinjiang cannot fool the international community. More people are seeing through their tricks and are voicing their support for Xinjiang in a strong response to the anti-China forces in the US and the West, Xu said.