The judging meeting of the First Silk Road Global News Awards is held in Beijing on July 20, 2022. Photo: Zhang Wujun/People's Daily The judging meeting of the First Silk Road Global News Awards was held in Beijing on Wednesday. During the meeting, the evaluation results of the first Silk Road Global News Awards were reviewed and confirmed.Fang Jiangshan, deputy editor-in-chief of People's Daily, served as director of the judging committee which consists of 21 members from various countries. Fang chaired the judging committee on Wednesday, with judging committee members joining both online and offline. At the judging meeting, the Secretariat of the Belt and Road News Network (BRNN) presented the results of the reevaluation through online voting. The judging members shared their opinions and made joint decision to shortlist 19 works including "Kazakhstan Belt and Road Initiative: The road to somewhere" for the first Silk Road Global News Awards. Mushahid Hussain Syed, chairman of the Pakistan-China Institute and head of Pakistan's "Friends of Silk Road" club, was listed as a finalist for the Special Contribution Award of the first Silk Road Global News Awards.Fang pointed out during the judging meeting that media is a significant force in guiding public opinion, enhancing people-to-people ties between countries and regions and better telling stories of cooperation under the BRI. The Silk Road Global News Awards, with the principle of promoting peaceful cooperation, openness, inclusiveness, mutual learning and win-win cooperation, honor media colleagues and people from all walks of life who recognize, spread and interpret the cooperation concept and practice of jointly building the BRI. The awards aim to build on a consensus between everyone who attaches great importance to the development and joint cooperation to boost the great practice of building a community with a shared future for mankind, Fang said. The Silk Road Global News Awards is a major project included in the List of Deliverables for the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. The first Silk Road Global News Awards include six categories: the In-depth Reporting Award, Commentary Award, Press Photo Award, Press Video Award, Short Video Award on the Fight against COVID-19 and Special Contribution Award. Among them, the Short Video Award on the Fight against COVID-19 was specially established based on the efforts of countries around the world to fight COVID-19 during the past two years.The selection of the first Silk Road Global News Awards is launched and organized by the BRNN, whose council chair is People's Daily. The Secretariat of the BRNN is responsible for doing the specific work.As an exploration and innovation, the selection process is open and transparent, fully reflecting the principle of standardization, authority, openness and internationality. The Secretariat of the BRNN carried out relevant work in a solid and pragmatic manner, listened to opinions and suggestions, carefully designed the selection rules and programs, and promoted the collection of works, the composition of the judging committee and other matters.The awards were open to media organizations and individuals from countries and regions along the Belt and Road Initiative, with 4,485 entries from 80 countries and regions participating. According to the selection plan, the process is divided into three stages: initial evaluation by the academic committee, reevaluation by the evaluation committee and final evaluation by the BRNN Council.The results of the reevaluation will be publicized on the BRNN's official website and the final evaluation will be made at the BRNN's second board meeting. After that, the Silk Road Global News Awards will be officially announced.Global Times