Photo: CFPChinese President Xi Jinping on Saturday sent a message of condolences to Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida on the "sudden and unfortune" passing of former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on behalf of the Chinese government and people and in his own name, and expressed sympathies to Abe's family. Former Japanese prime minister Abe, 67, died hours after being shot by a gunman on Friday in Japan's Nara, where he was making a campaign speech.  Chinese President Xi pointed out that Abe made efforts to improve China-Japan relations when he was in office and contributed positively to this endeavor. Xi said he had reached important common understanding with Abe on building a China-Japan relationship that meets the need of the new era. Xi also noted that he deeply regrets Abe's sudden passing and stands ready to work with Prime Minister Kishida to continue to develop a China-Japan relationship of good-neighborliness, friendship and cooperation in accordance with the principles of the four China-Japan political documents. Also on Saturday, President Xi and Madame Peng Liyuan sent a message of condolences to former Prime Minister Abe's widow Akie Abe.Abe's sudden death has shocked Japan and the international community. The attacker has been arrested and the case is under investigation, according to Japanese media reports. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian, commenting on the attack of Abe and his death, said China was shocked by the attack on Friday. Abe made contributions to improve Japan's ties with China and we extend condolences to his family, Zhao said. The Chinese Embassy in Japan also expressed sympathy over Abe's death. Leaders from many countries have sent condolences to Japanese Prime Minister Kishida on Abe's death. On Saturday, Kishida had a telephone conversation with US President Joe Biden, with Biden expressing his condolences, Kyodo News reported. Russian President Vladimir Putin has offered his condolences in a message to his mother and wife, TASS reported citing a message published on the Kremlin website. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote on Twitter on Friday that he was shocked and saddened beyond words at the tragic demise of Abe. As a two-time prime minister and leader of the largest faction in Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), Abe's death could ripple through Japanese politics and the international community, experts said. Global Times