Photo: VCGChina's Supreme People's Court (SPC) has made it clear to prohibit job discriminations against recovered COVID-19 patients in its next phase of work. Zhou Qiang, president of the SPC, demanded decisive prohibition to employment discriminations against people who have tested positive for COVID-19 and have since recovered. This statement came after recent heated discussions over discriminations against recovered COVID-19 patients on the job market. Media reported that some migrant workers in Shanghai, who had recovered from the virus, were left jobless and homeless in the city for more than a month. They expressed difficulties in finding a job as some employers refused to hire people with COVID-19 infection records. During a meeting of the State Council on July 14, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang stressed equal rights of employment and called for the punishment of those who discriminate against recovered COVID-19 patients. Any discrimination against those who recovered from the epidemic will be dealt with upon it is discovered, he noted. The Shanghai Municipal People's Congress also passed a decision on Thursday, banning employers from terminating contracts, or refusing to hire those who have suffered from infectious diseases. The SPC also emphasized the protection of the rights and interests of college graduates, migrant workers and workers engaging in new forms of employment. Moreover, Zhou noted that the legitimate rights and interests of both Chinese and foreign parties should be protected in accordance with the laws and the awareness of the rule of law and the spirit of contract should be strengthened among market entities to create a market-based, law-based and international business environment, and expand opening-up at a higher level. The court will also strengthen the judicial protection of property rights and entrepreneurs' rights and interests, as well as enhance the judicial protection for the application of data technology and the development of the digital economy. Global Times