Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin Photo: fmprc.gov.cnChina's stance on the so-called South China Sea arbitration is supported and understood by the international community, and any attempt to use this illegal ruling to infringe upon China's sovereignty and rights is doomed to fail. China also urged the US to stop causing trouble and disturbing relations between countries in the region, Chinese Foreign Ministry Wang Wenbin said on Wednesday. With regard to the arbitration award, the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs solemnly declared on July 12, 2016 that the award is null and void and has no binding force. China neither accepts nor recognizes it, Wang noted. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken "renewed a call" to China to "comply with a 2016 arbitration ruling" on the South China Sea, media reported on Tuesday, which also marked the sixth anniversary of the so-called ruling. "We call again on the People's Republic of China to abide by its obligations under international law and cease its provocative behavior," Blinken was quoted as saying in the reports. China's stance is widely supported and understood by the international community, and any attempt to use this illegal ruling to infringe on China's sovereignty and interests is doomed to fail, and China will definitely respond in accordance with the law, Wang said. The spokesperson also pointed out that the US, as an extraterritorial country, ignores the facts and the historical background of the South China Sea question, violating and distorting the international law and violating its open promise that it won't hold any stance on the sovereignty of the South China Sea. It's also trying to disturb regional countries' relations and sabotage regional peace as well as stability, and those acts are extremely irresponsible, he said. China urged the US side to respect China's sovereignty and interests on the South China Sea and stop causing trouble on the matter and using it to disturb the relations of regional countries. Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said at the ASEAN Secretariat on Monday that China and ASEAN countries are expediting the Code of Conduct in the South China Sea consultations and will continue to support ASEAN's efforts in building a nuclear-weapon-free zone.Wang Wenbin also noted that China and ASEAN countries are fully implementing the Declaration on Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea and actively pushing forward the Code of Conduct. Relevant parties agreed to handle the South China Sea question by directly negotiating and communicating with relevant countries on the disputes and it's up to China and ASEAN countries to jointly safeguard the stability and peace of the South China Sea.