Photo: Xinhua
Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, president of the People's Republic of China, chairman of the Central Military Commission, arrived in Hong Kong by train on Thursday afternoon, to attend the grand celebration of the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland and the inaugural ceremony of the sixth-term government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) on July 1 (Friday). During the tour, he will also inspect the HKSAR, and this has inspired people from all walks of life in Hong Kong. People are all voicing their kind wishes such as "Hong Kong's future will be brighter" and "Wishing China thriving prosperity." This is a natural expression of our confidence in the future. The past 25 years have witnessed that Hong Kong and the motherland share indivisible blood ties and are closely associated with each other. On the one hand, the motherland has provided Hong Kong with a stable and sufficient supply, and has supported Hong Kong to survive the financial crises, public health crises and other difficulty times. Backed by the giant ship of the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong has shown resilience and pressure-bearing capacity far beyond its size. On the other hand, as a free port that connects the mainland and the rest of the world, Hong Kong has played an indispensable and irreplaceable role in the history of China's reform and opening-up. The motherland's economic take-off and the process to become the world's second largest economy have gone hand in hand with the continuous improving competitiveness of Hong Kong businesses and Hong Kong people's rising living standards. History has also witnessed the pioneering work of "one country, two systems," which has taken root and borne fruit in Hong Kong. This is a great exploration that has never been done before, and there is no existing experience to follow. Over the past 25 years, with the full support of the central government, the "one country, two systems" principle has been comprehensively and accurately implemented, HKSAR's democratic system, which conforms to the city's reality, has been set up, continuously developed and improved in practice. "One country, two systems" has been constantly confronting and resolving new problems and challenges, and, during the process, the principle has shown strong institutional resilience. Statistics show that the average life expectancy of Hong Kong people and the social vitality of the city are among the top in the world. Hong Kong's economic structure has become more diversified and more logical, the mid-to-high-end services industry has achieved significant development, and technological innovation has become a new sector of growth. What is more worth mentioning is that under the direct care and guidance of the central government, Hong Kong's social and livelihood problems and deep-seated contradictions accumulated over a long period of time, such as housing, the relatively limited development space for young people, are being effectively resolved. Constructions including the Greater Bay Area and programs under the framework of Belt and Road Initiative have offered Hong Kong opportunities to catch the express train of national development. China's continuing expansion of its interactions with the world determines the unlimited prospects of Hong Kong as a "super connector." When delivering an important speech upon his arrival at the West Kowloon high-speed rail station in Hong Kong on Thursday, Xi said today's Hong Kong has been "reborn from the ashes." The words struck a chord among the vast number of people who love China the country and who love Hong Kong the city. The anti-extradition protests that took place three years ago seemed to have become distant history. At that time, Hong Kong separatists were unbridled with the instigation and support of overseas forces and "black terror" was rampant, leading Hong Kong into the most severe situation since its return to the motherland. What had gone wrong with Hong Kong? What could the city do? At the critical juncture, the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping as the core made a correct assessment of the situation, issuing in the timely manner the national security law for Hong Kong, improving the HKSAR's electoral system and opening up a new situation of good governance for Hong Kong. Starting anew is a Hong Kong that has undergone the transformation from chaos to good governance, and from good governance to prosperity. It's worth noting that the just-concluded G7 summit hypocritically called for "respect for Hong Kong's rights and freedom" once again. What it said is almost a copy and paste of last year's summit communiqué. US and Western politicians are still stuck in their old colonial dream and delusion - regarding Hong Kong as an "anti-China bridgehead." However, it's clear that the hands of interference of those anti-China forces who scheme to destabilize Hong Kong have been cut off by the national security law for Hong Kong. The Hong Kong citizens' national security awareness has unprecedentedly enhanced. This determines that interference and disruption by those anti-China forces who have attempted to destabilize Hong Kong are doomed to be futile. Hong Kong's prosperity and stability will also offset those attempts.Hong Kong has witness the river flowing with tides and undercurrents from time to time. But Hong Kong is always there, and so is the motherland. Twenty-five years ago, when the Union Flag which symbolized the history of the British colonial rule was lowered while  the Five-Starred Red Flag - China's national flag - as well as the flag of Hong Kong were raised at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre, many Chinese people including Hong Kong compatriots burst into tears. What happened over the past 25 years has proven that the future and destiny of Hong Kong must be in the hands of the patriots who would cry proudly for being Chinese. Who really cares for the good of Hong Kong? Who is the real supporter of Hong Kong's prosperity and stability? Hong Kong society has found a clear answer after having weathering the wind and storm.  White clouds pass over the mountain, and pearls take on new colors. The great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation is irreversible and Hong Kong's tomorrow will be even brighter. This is a sincere kind wish as well as firm confidence.