A resident takes a nucleic acid test in Nanning city, South China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region on July 16, 2022. Photo: ICA sudden COVID-19 flare-up hit the holiday resort of Beihai city in South China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, infecting more than 450 people infected over five days and leaving over 2,000 tourists stranded in the city. The city of Beihai located in the south of Guangxi is one of the most popular tourist resorts in Guangxi with a number of famous tourist attractions such as the Silver Beach, which is renowned for its white sand and Weizhou Island, a beautiful island formed by a volcanic eruption.The city received 2.11 million tourists during the National Day holidays in 2021 and the 29 A-level scenic spots in the city realized a total revenue of 14.61 million yuan ($2.16 million), according to data released by local government.Since the first asymptomatic infection was reported in Beihai on July 12, a total of nine local confirmed patients and 444 asymptomatic infections had been registered as of Saturday, according to a press briefing on Sunday morning. A fifth round of citywide nucleic acid testing was carried out in the city of 1.85 million on Sunday afternoon. As of Saturday, 3.94 million samples for nucleic acid testing had been collected from the previous four rounds of testing and 3.66 million results have come out. According to the local health commission of Guangxi, a number of cities including Beihai, Nanning, Guilin, Hezhou and Chongzuo have been affected by the outbreak. Apart from the nine confirmed cases and 444 silent carriers reported in Beihai, a total of 30 asymptomatic infections have been reported in other cities in the autonomous region. A working team from the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council led by deputy director of the National Health Commission Li Bin arrived in Beihai on Saturday to direct the epidemic prevention and control work and conducted the deployment of work for the next phase. According to the working group, the current epidemic situation in Beihai is very serious. The working group urged the local authority to immediately implement all epidemic prevention and control measures without delay according to zero-COVID policies and win the battle against the epidemic with the most decisive measures and the greatest speed. The outbreak that suddenly hit the city has seriously disrupted the tourism industry in Beihai, a traditional resort that sees its peak period during summer.Since Friday, tourists visiting Weizhou island in Beihai have had arrangements made for them to leave the island, and tourists who have booked hotels and guesthouses on the island will be fully refunded. According to the press briefing on Sunday, there are still over 2,000 tourists stranded in Beihai. The city has set up a special work group for the stranded tourists to make sure their demands are properly handled. Global Times