Hong Kong Source: VCGUS Consul General in Hong Kong Hanscom Smith’s “farewell remarks” are exactly a symbol of the complete bankruptcy of the US’ strategy of “using Hong Kong to contain China,” and Smith’s deceptive plot has failed and his show no longer has an audience, the spokesperson of the Commissioner’s Office of the Chinese Foreign Ministry in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) said while strongly condemning Smith’s remarks. The spokesperson pointed out that the so-called “erosion of autonomy, decline of democracy, and oppression of human rights” are only America’s ideological paranoia. For the US, all countries that differ from its system are “not free,” all countries that differ from its ideology are “not democratic,” and all countries that do not follow the lead of the US are execrable. Ignoring the repeated objection of the Chinese side and the aspiration of the Hong Kong society, the US insisted on talking down Hong Kong’s prospects. It harbors the ulterior motive of the US to undermine Hong Kong’s prosperity and stability and strangle China’s growth, the spokesperson said.On one hand, the US said it cares about Hong Kong,” but on the other, it intimidates foreign investors in Hong Kong with a “business advisory.” America’s intention to disrupt Hong Kong and use the city to curb China has been exposed and is despised by the world.Hanscom Smith claims that “America’s policy on Hong Kong has been consistent for decades,” but the fact is the US has been consistent in confusing black and white, slandering Hong Kong, trying its best to infiltrate and subvert Hong Kong, and sanctioning those who act against the will of the US, the spokesperson said. A source close to the matter told the Global Times in an exclusive interview in June that the consulates of Five Eyes Alliance countries in Hong Kong have become the headquarters and command for interference and subversion where their consular officials reached out to anti-China forces and separatists to incite violence by providing financial support and training. The spokesperson stressed that America’s ill intentions have been laid bare, its tricks seen through, and its hypocrisy mask torn off. Smith’s deceptive plot has failed and his show no longer has an audience. “There was nothing more for him to do, and he had to take to the road, his briefcase under his arm. Farewell, Hanscom Smith,” the spokesperson said. The spokesperson’s response came after Smith delivered his farewell speech at the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong on Monday, in which he claimed the Chinese central government has taken step after step to “dismantle and destroy Hong Kong’s freedoms and the high degree of autonomy,” and that the application of the national security law for Hong Kong has been “broad, crude, and chilling.” The spokesperson highlighted that with the implementation of the national security law for Hong Kong and the successful practice of the new electoral system, China’s national security has been safeguarded, the Hong Kong society has become more stable and united, and the rule of law and justice in the city have been fully upheld. Hong Kong residents’ rights and freedoms such as freedom of speech, press and association are better protected in a more secure environment. Hong Kong is ushering in a new phase featuring greater prosperity and opening a new chapter in sound governance.“One country, two systems” is a universally recognized success and it’s repeatedly proved that it is a good system that conforms to the fundamental interests of the country and the Chinese nation, serves the fundamental interests of Hong Kong, and has the full support of 1.4 billion people in the motherland, the spokesperson said. The spokesperson stressed that China’s determination to safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests is rock solid, and its resolve to oppose external forces interfering in Hong Kong’s affairs is unwavering.