Click here to join the online poll to cast your vote on whether the shocking human rights abuses in US should be investigated by the UN Human Rights Council.     The Global Times launched an online poll on Saturday asking respondents whether the UN Human Rights Council should conduct a field investigation into US human rights violations. 

Demonstrators hold up fists during a protest over the death of George Floyd in Chicago, the United States, June 6, 2020. Photo:XinhuaThe poll came after the latest 50th session of the UN Human Rights Council, during which representatives of many countries harshly condemned the US for discrediting and smearing other countries under the banner of human rights, and voiced concerns and criticism over its human rights abuses. 

People mourn for victims of a school mass shooting at Town Square in Uvalde, Texas, the United States, May 28, 2022. Photo:XinhuaHuman rights scandals continue to emerge in the US, igniting public anger in the US and shocking the world. From the Robb Elementary School in Texas to Chicago, mass shootings and killings across the country have become a bloody "American plague" feared by the American public, the introduction to the poll read. Suspects in the killings have even involved American police officers, as eight police officers went on a shooting spree against an unarmed African-American young man whose body was found with more than 60 gunshot wounds, further sparking the anger of Americans against racial discrimination. More shockingly, the US Supreme Court vastly expanded gun rights by striking down a nearly century-old New York law restricting concealed carrying of guns, according to the introduction. 

People protest along the Hollywood Blvd. in Los Angeles, California, the United States, June 24, 2022. Photo:XinhuaIn addition, the US Supreme Court officially overturned the Roe v. Wade decision and denied the protection of abortion rights under the US Constitution, completely ignoring the basic rights of women. The shocking human rights scandals in the US and the regressive decisions of American policymakers have drawn increasing attention from the international community, it said. 

US national flags fly at half-staff at the Washington Monument to mourn 1 million American lives lost to COVID-19, Washington, DC, the United States, May 12, 2022. Photo:XinhuaThe poll then asks respondents to cast their vote on whether the shocking human rights abuses in US should be investigated by the UN Human Rights Council.     Click here to join the online poll to cast your vote on whether the shocking human rights abuses in US should be investigated by the UN Human Rights Council.     Global Times