A medical worker prepares to administer a dose of COVID-19 vaccine at a temporary vaccination site in Haidian District of Beijing, capital of China, May 20, 2021. Photo:XinhuaChina's incumbent Party and state leaders have all been vaccinated using domestic COVID-19 vaccines, a Chinese health official confirmed at a press conference on Saturday, noting that this demonstrated Chinese leaders' emphasis on epidemic prevention and control work and their strong confidence in domestic vaccines.  Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the Chinese National Health Commission (NHC), revealed the information when asked whether Chinese leaders had been vaccinated.He noted that three China-developed COVID-19 vaccines had been included into the emergency usage list of the World Health Organization. More than 100 countries and regions had approved usage of China's vaccines and in many cases China-produced shots are the only ones that can be used on underage children.Leaders in more than 30 countries and regions like Turkey, Serbia, Cambodia, the Philippines and Chile, had received Chinese vaccines, Zeng said. All those facts indicated that China-manufactured vaccines had been widely accepted by the international community, he stressed.China kicked off nationwide mass vaccination since early 2021. As of Friday, a total of 3.4 billion shots of COVID-19 vaccine had been administered in Chinese mainland, according to data released daily by the NHC.  Data collected during the mass vaccination rollout showed that China-produced vaccines are safe and the rate of reported side effects is lower than other regular vaccines, Feng Zijian, the standing vice chairman of the Chinese Preventive Medicine Association, said at the Saturday press conference.

A senior citizen receives COVID-19 vaccine at a vaccination site in Haizhu district of Guangzhou, south China's Guangdong Province, April 7, 2022. Photo:XinhuaAccording to Feng, as of May 30, a total of 238,215 side effect cases following vaccination had been reported, equal to an incidence rate of 70.45 per one million shots.Among the side effect reports, more than 82 percent were normal responses like isolated pain and transient fever and more than 5 percent were abnormal responses such as allergic eruption, according to Feng.Overall, the rate of side effects following inoculation of Chinese COVID-19 vaccines were lower than that of other normal vaccines, including polio and flu vaccines, administered in China in 2020. Neither had there been any safety issue over Chinese shots reported in overseas countries and regions, all demonstrating the safety of China's vaccines, Feng noted. As to some posts circulating on Chinese social media platforms claiming that some people had developed leukemia or diabetes following vaccination, Wang Fusheng, an academician from the Chinese Academy of Sciences, noted at the Saturday press conference that  COVID-19 vaccines do not cause leukemia or diabetes as claimed by some posts circulating on social media. Neither do they cause tumor spread or antibody-dependent enhancement as some posts had claimed, Wang said.