Former national security adviser John Bolton speaks on stage during a public discussion at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina on February 17, 2020. Photo: AFP Overthrowing foreign governments is deep in the bones of how the US conducts its foreign policy, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson said in response to remarks of former White House national security advisor John Bolton, who said in an interview that he had helped plan attempted coups in foreign countries. "I noted that when this former senior US official mentioned his experience planning coups in foreign countries, he spoke unashamedly and was even proud about it. This means overthrowing foreign governments is deep in the bones of how the US conducts its foreign policy," Wang Wenbin, a spokesperson from the foreign ministry, said at Monday's press briefing. "As somebody who has helped plan coups d'état - not here but you know (in) other places - it takes a lot of work," Bolton said, acknowledging he had helped plan attempted coups in foreign countries, in his remarks to CNN after the day's congressional hearing into the January 6, 2021 attack on the US Capitol, Reuters reported. Bolton's admission is so revealing. Leading US politicians trumpet the so-called "rules-based international order" for one purpose: to ensure that the US can easily interfere in other countries' affairs and overthrow their governments at its own will. This is exactly the kind of "rules" and "order" that people like Bolton want absolutely to defend. The people of the world, however, will not let them, Wang said.Wang also mentioned the book Covert Regime Change: America's Secret Cold War written by Lindsey A. O'Rourke from Boston College, saying it documents 64 covert interventions by the US from 1947 to 1989 and six overt attempts. US' operations didn't stop after the Cold War. Over the years, the US has been creating political turbulence, interference and inciting color revolutions in Eurasia, Wang said, noting US officials even went to streets to provoke political confrontation through supporting the opposite party of other countries. Global Times