Photo:XinhuaChinese delegation to the World Economic Forum (WEF) at Davos refuted a report by CNN on Monday, citing a US official, that the Chinese delegation did not applaud the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's speech and walked out, hinting on China's stance on the Ukraine crisis.The report distorted the facts and the Chinese delegation staged a solemn representation, the delegation said. When Zelensky made the speech, the Chinese delegation were talking with International Energy Agency chief Fatih Birol, the delegation told the Xinhua News Agency. CNN's report distorted the facts and slandered the position of the Chinese delegation. When CNN talked with Michael McCaul, a Republican from Texas, on air on Monday, the US official showed a picture he took at Davos of the Chinese delegation sitting during a standing ovation after Zelensky's speech, which was described as "interesting" by a CNN host. McCaul said the Chinese delegation were sitting behind him and that the delegation refused to clap like others did after Zelensky made a "powerful" speech in rallying the international community. "And then they proceeded to walk out after that picture … Sending a clear message they do not support Ukraine," he told CNN. McCaul also hyped on China's position by connecting the interaction between the top leaders of China and Russia in February as a "supporting element" for his explanation of the picture. The Chinese government reiterated that it has always supported Russia and Ukraine to overcome difficulties and continue negotiations, and welcomes all efforts by the international community to promote peace, noting that it is ready to work with other parties to continue playing a constructive role in this regard. The nature of the Russia-Ukraine conflict is a strategic game between Moscow and Washington, and the facts prove that the conflict has created a new situation that has harmed Ukraine, Russia and the rest of Europe, but only benefits the US, Chinese observers said. Global Times