A truck carrying containers is seen at the container dock of Shanghai's Yangshan Port, April 27, 2022. About 25,000 staff members stick to their posts in Shanghai port to guarantee water transportation and improve logistics efficiency amid challenges caused by the recent resurgence of COVID-19 in Shanghai. Photo: XinhuaShanghai has further pushed forward the resumption of production, with nearly half of the 9,000 industrial enterprises above designated size having already resumed production, Wu Jincheng, director of Shanghai Municipal Economic and Information Commission, said on Friday.More than 4,400 among the 9,000 industrial enterprises above designated size have resumed production, with some districts such as Jinshan and Qingpu that have seen zero new COVID-19 cases at community level reaching an even higher rate, Wu said at Friday's press briefing. The production resumption rate in Jinshan reached nearly 70 percent, and that of Qingpu reached about 60 percent.In order to ensure the city's daily operation and epidemic prevention, three rounds of "white lists" of more than 3,000 enterprises that supports the city's operations have been prepared for resumption, with over 70 percent of them already underway, Wu said.Among these enterprises, 80 percent of the 847 foreign-invested firms have restarted their operations, according to authorities.For instance, in the auto industry, four auto companies including SAIC General Motors Corp and Tesla have all resumed operations, realizing continuous and stable production. About 2,000 vehicles are rolling off the production line every day, leading more than 1,100 upstream and downstream auto parts production enterprises to resume operations too.Meanwhile, the auto export is also accelerating as Tesla exported about 4,900 vehicles following work resumption and SAIC Motor exported 15,000 vehicles, according to Wu.In other fields, integrated circuits and chip manufacturers have maintained above 90 percent of production capacity. A group of enterprises in the biological medicine industry are resuming production and research activities.In the steel and petrochemical industry, leading companies such as Baoshan Iron & Steel Co has kept operations at 90 percent. In epidemic prevention materials, enterprises have increased production of protective suits, face masks and other epidemic prevention materials, with production doubling in some areas.   Bright Dairy & Food Co has maintained steady production and the supply of raw milk. All its four factories in Shanghai have resumed production, and the capacity utilization rate has reached 70 percent in order to meet the needs of the public.The scope of issuance of vehicle permits and passes for personnel returning to work has been gradually expanded. In all of the Yangtze Delta Region, the success rate of trans-provincial logistics transportation in the chemicals and other key industrial chains has reached over 90 percent, according to authorities.Over 100,000 passes for employees returning work have been issued to assist workers return to work in an orderly manner.