p.p1 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify; line-height: 10.0px; font: 9.5px ScalaOT}
p.p2 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: justify; text-indent: 11.3px; line-height: 10.0px; font: 9.5px ScalaOT}
p.p3 {margin: 2.9px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; line-height: 10.0px; font: 9.0px 'ScalaSansOT Light'}
span.s1 {letter-spacing: -0.1px}

People mourn for victims of a school mass shooting in Uvalde, Texas, the United States, May 26, 2022. At least 19 children and two adults were killed in a shooting at Robb Elementary School in the town of Uvalde, Texas, on Tuesday. Photo:Xinhua US President Joe Biden is expected to visit Uvalde on Sunday to console residents mourning 19 children and two teachers who were gunned down at an elementary school in the small Texas town.Harrowing accounts are emerging of the ordeal faced by survivors of the Tuesday attack, as Biden calls for action to prevent future massacres in a country where efforts to tighten firearms regulations have repeatedly failed.“We cannot outlaw tragedy, I know, but we can make America safer. We can finally do what we have to do to protect the lives of the people and of our children,” Biden said Saturday in a speech at the University of Delaware.“So I call on all Americans this hour to join hands and make your voices heard and work together to make this nation what it can and should be,” the president said.As residents gathered in a central square in Uvalde to pay homage to the victims, haunting stories told by young students who played dead while a gunman killed their classmates and teachers were underscored by accounts of the slow reaction by police.Ten-year-old Samuel Salinas was sitting in his fourth-grade classroom when the shooter, later identified as Salvador Ramos, 18, barged in with a chilling announcement: “You’re all going to die.”Texas authorities admitted Friday that as many as 19 police officers were in the school hallway for nearly an hour without breaching the room where the shooter was, thinking he had ended his killing. Officials called this delay the “wrong decision.”Ramos was finally killed by police.Survivors of the attack have described making desperate, whispered pleas for help in 911 phone calls during his assault. Some played dead to avoid drawing the shooter’s attention.Eleven-year-old Miah Cerrillo even smeared the blood of a dead friend on herself as she feigned death. Salinas said he thinks Ramos fired at him, but the bullet struck a chair, sending shrapnel into the boy’s leg. “I played dead so he wouldn’t shoot me,” he said.Another student, Daniel, whose mother would not provide his last name, said he saw Ramos fire through the glass in the classroom door, striking his teacher.The bullets were “hot,” he told The Washington Post, and when another bullet ricocheted and struck a fellow student in the nose, he said he could hear the sickening sound it made.Though his teacher lay on the floor bleeding, she repeatedly told the students, “Stay calm. Stay where you are. Don’t move,” Daniel recalled.He was finally rescued by police who broke the windows of his classroom. Since then, he has had recurrent nightmares.By mid-morning Saturday, several dozen people had gathered at Uvalde’s courthouse square, which has become a somber place of homage to victims and survivors. AFP