John Lee waves to people after winning the election of the sixth-term chief executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in Hong Kong, south China, May 8, 2022.Photo:Xinhua By securing 99.16 percent supportive votes from the Election Committee members who cast their votes on Sunday, the sole candidate John Lee Ka-chiu was elected as the sixth-term Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR).   The highly expected Chief Executive Election for Hong Kong, the first CE election since the implementation of electoral reform which aims to ensure only patriots governing Hong Kong, kicked off on Sunday as most of 1,461 Election Committee (EC) members cast their ballots at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre in Wan Chai. The overall voting process started from 9 am and concluded at 11:30 am, going smoothly and being organized in the eyes of some EC members. The central government is expected to formally appoint him as Hong Kong's next chief executive soon.  In total, 1,428 Election Committee members cast their votes "support" or "not support" for Chief Executive Election in Hong Kong, with the overall turnout rate of 97.74 percent. 33 members did not vote. Lee secured 1,416 supportive votes among the 1,428 EC members who cast their votes, or 99.16 percent of the votes cast.   "Serving Hong Kong and serving our people for the next five years, this is an honor with humility and sincere gratitude, with loyalty and perseverance," Lee told after being elected.  This year marks the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the Hong Kong SAR. We must continue to ensure the comprehensive, accurate and full implementation of the principles of the "one country, two systems," "Hong Kong people administering Hong Kong" and "high degree of autonomy to maintain our long term prosperity and stability." Having restored order from chaos, it is high time that Hong Kong starts a new chapter of development, a chapter that we get toward greater prosperity for all, he said.  Lee gained a high rate of 99.16 percent of the votes, which reflects recognition and affirmation of the Hong Kong society, the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council said in a congratulatory message to Lee published shortly after the result came out. It's believed the new CE will lead the new government and representatives from various sectors of Hong Kong to unveil a new chapter for good governance in the city, the office said.  It also said the election is a successful practice of Hong Kong's new election system, which has proven to fit "one country, two systems" and Hong Kong's reality.  The sixth-term CE election has great significance for Hong Kong, especially after the implementation of the national security law for Hong Kong and the electoral reform, the city returned to the correct track, resisting the foreign interference and stabilizing the society with active measures for economy and livelihoods.  The election stimulates the positive energy, underscores the democracy with broad representation and unity as the candidate and residents are focusing on measures for building the city together rather than making confrontations or divisions, the top office on Hong Kong affairs said. The next five years will be the period for Hong Kong to emerge from the social turmoil to being well governed to develop, and we believe that if the new government and representatives from various sectors seize the historical opportunities, it would be a new starting point for Hong Kong to make a splendid history, said the State Council's Hong Kong and Macao office.  The liaison office of the central government also congratulates Lee's election, as the election fully underscored the principle of only patriots governing Hong Kong and the advantages of the new election system, which is another successful practice of the democracy with Hong Kong characteristics. "We are fully confident in Hong Kong's democratic path," the liaison office said, hoping that Lee will lead the local government and representatives from various sectors to fully and correctly implement the "one country, two systems" to unveil a new chapter for Hong Kong's future. Carrie Lam, the incumbent CE, also extended her sincere congratulations to Lee on his successful election. She said she will submit a report of the election result to the central government later and will ensure a seamless transition with the CE-elect. The election on Sunday is considered the most important one for the political life in Hong Kong. Since the implementation of the electoral reform, which fundamentally changed the rules of the political game in sweeping out the anti-China figures and some backed by Western forces, observers believe that the Hong Kong people can successfully choose an ideal person who will resolutely carry out the reforms to reshape the local governance in order to fix some deep-rooted problems in Hong Kong society. Some political heavyweights told the media while they came to the polling station to cast their votes that they shared the high expectation for Lee and hoped that the next CE could tackle some urgent issues including fighting the epidemic in Hong Kong, reopening borders with the mainland, and fixing the housing woes.  Starry Lee Wai-king, a EC member and chairwoman of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong (DAB), hoped that Lee could be elected with a high number of votes, expecting him to roll out more specific measures compared to his policy platform after he is elected. When asked whether the DAB members will join the new government, she said it's too early to say but the DAB is happy to propose talents for the new government.  Executive Councilor Ronny Tong Ka-wah who is also a EC member told the Global Times on Sunday after he cast the ballot that Hong Kong people expect to elect a CE who can achieve the goals. "Hopefully, the new government can overhaul the political system, improve the living environment, work on the problems of the youth and help recover the local economy," he said.  He also believed that fixing the division in the society is a collective will of Hong Kong people, and especially after the social turmoil in 2019, local residents showed positive attitude toward fixing the division in the society: "It's not important which position Lee used to serve in Hong Kong, it's important how he will tackle the most important aspects for Hong Kong's future," Tong said. Lee, 64, was appointed as chief secretary for administration of the HKSAR in June 2021, which is the No.2 position after the chief executive. In July 2021, Lee was appointed as chairman of the Candidate Eligibility Review Committee for local elections. Lee started his career as a policeman. He joined the Hong Kong Police Force in 1977 and held a variety of posts before he was appointed as undersecretary for security in September 2012. He then served as secretary for security from 2017 to 2021. Lee's appointment as chief secretary for administration came after the police force demonstrated professionalism and competence in the battle against a series of violent riots in Hong Kong in 2019, according to observers.