A staff member checks the nucleic acid test results of customers outside a Walmart store in Beijing, capital of China, May 1, 2022. A negative nucleic acid test result within 48 hours is required to enter public venues during the Labor Day holiday in Beijing. Photo: XinhuaBeijing reported 53 new COVID19 cases in the last 24 hours, as the capital continues enforcing strict anti-virus measures and postponed school reopening for a week as a precautionary measure, local authorities announced on Tuesday.All kindergartens, primary and middle schools and secondary vocational schools in Beijing will postpone resuming classes for a week until May 11. When students will return to schools would be based on the COVID-19 epidemic situation, Beijing authorities told a press conference on Tuesday.Those who really need to leave Beijing must present a nucleic acid test negative certificate taken within 48 hours and a green health code before boarding a plane or a train. Airports and railway stations will strengthen inspection, and spot checks will also be carried out on those leaving Beijing by road. Anyone who are unable to present a green health code will not be allowed to enter or leave Beijing, officials confirmed at the press conference.At present, there remain hidden sources of infection in some communities in Beijing, so district screening should be accelerated to resolutely control the spread of the epidemic, Pang Xinghuo, deputy director of the Beijing municipal disease prevention and control center, said at the conference. Key personnel such as front-line medical workers and delivery platform workers should wear N95 or KN95 masks while working. Residents are also advised to wear N95 or KN95 masks in closed control areas and temporary control areas, the city stressed.One transmission chain has been linked to an individual who used a public toilet three times, leading to three more cases and nearly 40 subsequent infections, officials revealed, warning that the individuals needed to remain vigilant when in public settings.Starting from Thursday, the first working day after the May Day holiday, the Beijing Capital International Airport will require all people show a negative nucleic acid test result taken within seven days to enter any of the terminals. As of Tuesday, the number of locally infected cases in Beijing from the recent outbreak had reached over 430. The city began three days of mass COVID-19 testing on Tuesday, covering 12 districts out of its total of 16, including all major urban districts. Beijing has implemented strict control and prevention measures during the May Day holiday. To curb virus transmission, municipal authorities are requiring that all residents present a negative nucleic acid test result taken within the past 48 hours if they wish to enter public places, including scenic areas, hotels and homestays, during the five-day May Day holiday that began on Saturday. Dine-in services have been suspended at all restaurants in the city from Sunday through to Wednesday, although venues are allowed to offer takeout. Nucleic acid test results of environmental samples collected from 3,320 sites across The Beijing metro showed negative after positive cases in the recent COVID-19 outbreak reportedly took some subway lines. Two new COVID-19 cases in the city’s Dongcheng district on Monday were  traced to Beijing's Universal Studios resort. The resort has suspended operations temporarily since May 1.Sales of food takeout soared as Beijing halted dine-in services at restaurants. Beijing announced the suspension on Saturday after multiple infections were linked to restaurants around the city. According to the latest statistics from food delivery platforms, orders for food delivery during the May Day holiday have increased by 30 percent. At the same time, delivery platforms have ensured the dining needs of Beijing residents by increasing the capacity, increasing the number of prepared dishes, and launching in-store pickup services.Global Times