Screenshot of the controversial exam reference book. Photo: Sina WeiboAn exam reference book for pupils with a photo showing a suspected Japanese soldier carrying a Chinese old lady on his back being depicted as the Chinese model soldier Lei Feng has come under fire amid a nationwide outcry for thorough investigations into problematic books for children. The incident happened after a national publisher's textbooks were criticized for being racist and pornographic. Being a bestseller for more than 10 years, the supplementary reading material titled Juyifansan Tongbu Qiaojiang Jinglian for primary school students, introduces the Chinese PLA model soldier Lei Feng who is renowned for his generosity and altruistic deeds. According to the cover of the book posted by netizens on Chinese social media on Sunday, the book was jointly compiled by the “Juyifansan” series, which produces teaching materials, and Jinxing Int’l Education Group Limited, which is specialized in printed books and digital books publication and internet education. Two state-owned publishing houses in Xi’an, capital of Northwest China’s Shaanxi Province, the Shaanxi Xinhua Publishing & Media and the Shaanxi People’s Education Press, jointly published the exam reference book. A staffer from the Shaanxi People’s Education Press said on Sunday evening that they are still investigating the cause of the mistake. The chief-editor of the book, Xue Jinxing, did not reply as of Sunday evening. Many netizens said the problem of the book is more serious compared with the textbooks with racist and pornographic problems since the photo was a staged photograph by the Japanese army to downplay Japan's wartime atrocities committed in China during World War II. A netizen pointed out that the old lady’s feet were apparently broken due to its opposite direction. Another netizen was worried that such a misleading book can be taken advantage of by Japan to defy the crimes it had committed during the war. It is one of the latest cases amid the "ugly textbook illustration" scandal that has been brewing nationwide with a growing number of  netizens calling for a thorough scrutiny of problematic press houses, after the textbooks published by the People's Education Press sparked uproar last week for the controversial covers and illustrations. China's Ministry of Education, which administers the People’s Education Press, issued a statement on Saturday, ordering a thorough inspection of elementary and middle school textbooks nationwide and urged the publication house to make rectification. Global Times