Photo:Yunnan Forest Fire Brigade  

Photo:Yunnan Forest Fire BrigadeRescuers have made contact with all 13 people who lost contact after bypassing checkpoints in a county in Southwest China's Yunnan Province and entering Dali's Cangshan Mountain without permission. They are currently in good physical condition, according to media reports on Saturday. The missing squad is believed to be in search of a military transport aircraft that crashed 80 years ago while flying over the Hump, an air route from India to China over the Himalayan Mountains to resupply Chinese war efforts and the First American Volunteer Group, better known as "Flying Tigers," during the War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression (1931-45).Two batches of rescue teams were dispatched on Saturday morning, including 29 workers, 240 sets of various types of rescue equipment, and two search and rescue dogs. The area where they got lost is located in the southwest slope of the Cangshan Mountain, with dense plant coverage, gullies and valleys. The temperature is between 10 and 20 Celsius, with light to moderate rain. Among the missing people is Sun Chunlong, a former journalist and the initiator of a charity event "veterans coming home." According to sources close to the matter, Sun and his peers went into the mountain in search of an aircraft that crashed and lost contact some 80 years ago while flying over "the Hump," a name referring to the eastern end of the Himalayan Mountains over which military transport aircraft flew from India to China to resupply the Chinese war efforts and the units of the Flying Tigers based in China, thepaper.cn reportedThe sources said that they had brought with them several satellite phones, but one of them ran out of power and another one could not get through because of the rain. There were local tour guides and members of the Blue Sky Rescue Team, a Chinese civilian rescue organization, accompanying Sun's trek. "We will walk for four days carrying more than 10 kilograms of weight, and cut our way out of the bush. For me, it will be the biggest physical challenge of my life," Sun said on his WeChat Moments on Monday before entering the woods. The Hump route is more than 800 kilometers long spanning across the Himalayas, the altitudes of mountains along which are about 4500-5500 meters, with the highest altitude reaching 7,000 meters.While flying over the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau and the Yunnan-Guizhou Plateau, transport aircrafts could not reach the desired height above the peaks but could only fly through the canyons, making their flight paths forming the shape of a hump, for which the route was named. Apart from difficulties of flying through the snowy peaks, canyons, glaciers, and areas occupied by the Japanese troops, the climate in this area was extremely harsh - strong air currents, low air pressures, hails, to name a few. The air route was thus dubbed the "death route" due to the alarmingly high crash rate of planes. Global Times