Chinese President Xi Jinping meets via video link with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on May 9, 2022. Photo: from Xinhua.Chinese President Xi Jinping on Monday met via video link with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz as the two leaders exchanged views on bilateral ties, China-EU relations and Ukraine crisis. As influential major countries, China and Germany should keep bilateral relations healthy and better harness the stabilizing, constructive and steering role of China-Germany relationship. This will not only serve the interests of the peoples of two countries but will also contribute to world peace and tranquility, Xi said. Besides talks on China-Germany relations and China-Europe relationships, the two leaders also exchanged views on the Ukraine situation. Xi said China has always stood on the side of peace and has been promoting peace talks and de-escalating the situation in its own way. He said the Ukraine crisis has once again pushed European security to a critical crossroads and it's imperative to prevent the intensification and escalation of conflicts. He also said Europe must show its historical responsibility and political wisdom and focus on its long term peace and security. "European security should be in the hands of Europeans," Xi said. Xi said China supports Europe in playing a positive role in peace talks and called for building a balanced, effective and sustainable security framework in Europe.Xi stressed that it is the mutual respect and win-win cooperation that resulted in high-level China-Germany relations and joint development for both countries in the past 50 years, saying that China's wish to promote bilateral relations, strengthen cooperation and accomplish more meaningful major issues with Germany remains.Xi listed areas that can broaden and deepen the two countries' cooperation, including climate change, environmental protection, macro-economic policies, financial stability, security of energy and food, stability in industrial and supply chains.Scholz said Germany is willing to keep close contact and exchanges with China at all levels and to strengthen cooperation in trade and investment, climate change, anti-epidemic efforts, as well as medical, educational and cultural areas, welcoming China's higher-standard opening-up which will bring more opportunities to Germany.Xi noted that China and Europe are comprehensive strategic partners with much larger common interests than differences, wishing Germany to play a positive role in China-Europe relationship. "China supports Europe's strategic independence. China-Europe relationship is not targeted at any third party, nor is it subjugated to or controlled by it," Xi said.