Yantian Port in Shenzhen, South China's Guangdong Province Photo: VCGChina's export growth rate dropped to a 21-month low of 3.9 percent in April, but still beat market expectations despite mounting challenges posed by COVID-19 outbreaks in multiple cities that weighed on production and logistics as well as weakening global demand due to the lingering pandemic, according to data released by the Chinese customs showed on Monday.China's general trade situation, considering the higher-than-expected export growth, the massive trade surplus and improvement in the trade structure, showed resilience in spite of growing challenges, experts said, predicting that the situation will likely improve in May and recover further later in the year. In April, China's exports stood at $274 billion, up 3.9 percent on a yearly basis, according to the customs data. Imports stood at $222.5 billion, unchanged from last year's level. In total, China's trade grew 2.1 percent in April, slowing down from 7.5 percent in March. This was slightly better than some market institutions' forecasts. A Reuters survey previously predicted that China's export growth in April could slow to the lowest level since June 2020 to stand at 3.2 percent.Still, the slower growth rate showed growing challenges for trade. Omicron cases in several cities were the direct cause for China's slowing trade. Among those cities was Shanghai, a domestic and global logistics hub.The metropolis has been put under strict anti-virus restrictions for some time, causing many factories' output to shrink and restricting logistics.China will  unwaveringly stick to the zero-COVID policy, while effectively coordinating virus containment and economic and social development, and striving to stabilize foreign trade and investment, Vice Premier Hu Chunhua said in remarks at a trade and foreign investment-themed national video teleconference on Monday.Hu called for efforts to stabilize the production and operations of trade firms, strive to help them secure orders and markets, ensure smooth logistics for foreign trade, and take all-out actions to maintain industry and supply chains intact."The sudden outbreaks disrupted logistics and supply chains, restricted trading companies' deliveries and lowered the efficiency of trade links. Raw material costs also had a negative impact," Zhou Maohua, a macroeconomic analyst at Everbright Bank, told the Global Times on Monday.  Tommy Tan, president of Shanghai EPU Supply Chain Management, an agent for China-EU freight trains, told the Global Times that the impact on such trains had been relatively high due to logistics issues, sanctions on Russia and disruptions posed by the pandemic. "All companies whose business is related to China-EU freight trains face the pressure of fluctuating customer demand and falling order volume. The impact is expected to last another half year or even longer," he said. But analysts said that China's trade sector still showed resilience in April, considering the high-level trade surplus and improving structure. One bright spot was robust trade relations with Asian countries and economies along the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) route. China's total trade with BRI economies totaled 3.97 trillion yuan ($590 billion) in the first four months of 2022, up 15.4 percent. Trade with the 14 Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership members reached 3.84 trillion yuan, up 3.9 percent, as regional cooperation continued to improve. "Against the backdrop of the coronavirus, achieving trade data like China did in April is not easy," Bai Ming, deputy director of the International Market Research Institute of the Ministry of Commerce, told the Global Times on Monday. The government is beefing up efforts to support domestic trade companies. During a recent State Council executive meeting, officials rolled out a slew of measures, including the confirmation of a directory of key overseas trade companies that will have safeguards in areas like production, logistics and employment.The government also vowed to increase credit support for smaller trade companies, such as increasing the scale of short-term export credit insurance and stabilizing the yuan's exchange rate.With support measures, the control of COVID-19 outbreaks and the push for work resumption, the trade sector will hopefully improve starting from May, Zhou predicted. "Exports will take a turn for the better in the second and third quarters, but considering a high base in 2021 and signs of slowing overseas demand, growth in those two quarters would likely slow slightly," he said, noting that China's exports will grow 5-10 percent for the whole year. Bai said that trade in May and June would depend on the results of COVID-19 control efforts. In particular, China's export orders are dropping, which might affect businesses in two to three months. But if the COVID-19 outbreak in Shanghai are brought under effective control and production fully resumes, a strong rebound in the Yangtze River Delta region could be seen soon, Bai noted.