Illustration: Liu Rui/GTIn the Marvel Cinematic Universe, the biggest villain Thanos has a powerful weapon called the "Infinity Gauntlet." With a snap of his fingers, he can effortlessly erase half of all life in the universe.The US also has a similar weapon - the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), known as the US government's "white gloves." By putting on these gloves glossed over by the so-called democracy, Washington can easily interfere in the internal affairs of other countries and disrupt the order of their politics and society.A fact sheet about the NED that the Chinese Foreign Ministry released on Saturday reveals the dark deeds performed all over the world by the organization that claims to "support freedom around the world."By ripping off Uncle Sam's hypocritical "white gloves," the report has enabled the world to see even more clearly Washington's hands hidden underneath. These hands are not only dirty, but also ugly, despicable and shameful. The fact sheet also reaffirms the US as the specter haunting and destabilizing the world.The NED has always presented itself as an "independent, nonprofit foundation." But in fact, the organization is largely funded by the US Congress, so it is far from being "independent" or a nongovernmental organization (NGO) as some argued.After the end of the Cold War, globalization has led to the growth of influence of some NGOs, especially those less political. So, under such a tendency, the US also wants to use the guise of NGOs to achieve what its government wants in target countries. The NED is clearly a product of Washington to advance the US' political agenda.China has been one of NED's main targets. For example, the foundation was found behind the turmoil in Hong Kong back in 2019, having offered subsidies and training to those violent rioters. In addition, the NED funds the activities of secessionist organizations outside of China, such as those advocating the "independence" of Xinjiang and Xizang (Tibet).An international affairs expert told the Global Times on condition of anonymity that the NED aims to smear and demonize China's political system, especially by echoing the US government's efforts to do so in the international arena. The NED also makes all efforts to incite extremist forces in Chinese society that are dissatisfied with the country to carry out activities undermining China's global image and national power."So, the NED has been a very subversive and destructive force that we need to stay alert to," he said.The NED is also globally known as the "second CIA [Central Intelligence Agency]." But compared to the CIA, which "openly" engages in disrupting activities, including infiltration and subversion in target countries, the "independent" label on the NED is much more deceptive. It is more likely to make people lose their guard. Besides, the NED can do some of the dirty works Washington finds inconvenient to do openly. Therefore, the activities of the NED and US intelligence agencies actually support and complement each other.The NED may be "nonprofit" economically, but it is definitely politically profitable, as the deeds of the foundation advance US strategic interests. With the help of the NED, on the one hand, Washington can hype up how evil its "non-democratic" opponents are, a convenient and "justified" excuse to attack them and even subvert their regimes.On the other hand, by cultivating "democratic" forces in other countries, the US in many cases attempts to support those that are in favor of Washington or even create US puppets. In this way, Uncle Sam can extend his hand to more countries and expand his influence, thus consolidating his global hegemonic position.In fact, the NED is another tool in Washington's toolbox to maintain its world hegemony. "The NED's activities have created great insecurity in the world to satisfy US' very absurd and bizarre sense of security," said the above-mentioned specialist. "However, the fact is, if other countries are less safe, so is the US," he continued.