A patient takes nucleic acid test at a makeshift hospital in Shanghai. Photo: VCGShanghai authorities responded to the public speculations about one positive infection in a building will result in all the residents in the whole building being centralized quarantined: whether a person is identified as first or second degree close contact is a holistic judgment made by epidemiological professionals according to national standards, with consideration for the results of epidemiological investigations and information from big data screening, Sun Xiaodong, deputy director of Shanghai Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention said during a press briefing on Tuesday. Video clips showing Shanghai residents from some residential buildings being required to transfer to centralized quarantine sites when positive infections discovered in their buildings have gone viral over the past few days. Shanghai’s anti-rumor platform has also received a large quantity of inquiries about the necessity of quarantining all the residents once a positive case is discovered in a building. According to Sun, close contact refers to those who had been in short-distance contact with a suspected or confirmed case but have not taken effective protective measures during four days before the cases showed symptoms, or those who had been in short-distance contact without preventive measures with asymptomatic carriers during four days before the silent carriers were sampled. Those who have possibly been exposed to polluted environment are also identified as close contacts. Second degree close contacts refer to those who live, work and study together with close contacts and have frequent contacts. If an individual who lives in an environment with independent access to kitchen and toilet facilities tests positive, he or she will be placed under strict management (meaning the person will be confined to their home). The people living with the infected person will be considered first degree close contacts, while the people living on the same floor and on the upper and lower floors are second degree close contacts. If a person has no independent access to kitchen and toilet facilities and tests positive, then both those who live with the infected person and those who use the same kitchen and toilet facilities will be considered first degree close contacts. Moreover, those who live on the same floor or those who live in the same house and have daily contacts with the infected person will also be identified as first degree close contacts. Those who live in the same building or the same village but not together with the infected person are second degree close contacts. However, the aforementioned are just the criteria for judgement, the onsite investigations and the results of risk assessment will also be taken into account for the comprehensive judgement of specific cases, Sun stressed, adding that the judgment cannot be made by a simplified and one-size-fits-all approach. Global Times