A Chinese Peking Opera artist (left) performs with a foreign student at the opening gala of the 13th Confucius Institute Conference on Tuesday in Chengdu, Southwest China's Sichuan Province. University chancellors and headmasters from 150 countries and regions, together with nearly 1,500 Confucius institute delegates attended the event. Photo: VCGThe majority of international students studying in China intend to pursue careers in China or be employed by Chinese institutions based overseas after graduation, as shown by the latest survey by a Chinese non-government think tank. The survey also showed their diversified employment preferences. The survey results, included in a new book International Students in China and Their Career Development, were published by the think tank, the Center for China and Globalization (CCG), on Wednesday. A profound study and analysis of the actual development of international students in China, the survey was based on international comparisons and lots of data, giving advice and providing ideas for building a better environment for attracting and using international talent.The survey showed that 62.32 percent of international students studying in China intend to work in China, and 73 percent hope to be employed by Chinese institutions based overseas. The survey also shows that the international students are interested in all kinds of employers, including companies, diplomatic agencies or international intergovernmental organizations, public service agencies, and non-governmental organizations. According to the book, China has implemented policies that favor international students' entry and exit since 2016, together with other encouraging and supportive policies for entrepreneurship and employment of international students, which are some of the reasons for international students to choose China as their career destinations. Attracting international talent to China can help the country to engage more actively in global governance, the survey said.However, the COVID-19 pandemic has brought challenges for international students in China.According to the think tank, many international students are still stranded overseas due to the pandemic. International education in China also serves as a market-oriented industry that can help boost economic development, CCG said. Also, the think tank suggested that Chinese and international students should progress hand-in-hand in a variety of fields such as cultural exchange, scientific innovation, foreign trade and global governance. Global Times