Vehicles and pedestrians are seen on the intersection surrounding Metro City, a landmark shopping mall in Xuhui district, East China's Shanghai on May 30. Photo: Feng Yu/GT
Shanghai will fully resume normal production and daily operations starting from June 1, as the latest round of Omicron outbreak has been curbed effectively, Zong Ming, vice mayor of Shanghai, said on Tuesday. The city has been adhered to the dynamic zero-COVID policy unwaveringly to curb the epidemic and ensure people's safety, Zong said at Tuesday's press briefing. Shanghai on Monday registered 29 COVID-19 positive cases, fewer than 100 infections for the second day in a row. The number of residents under lockdown has dropped to less than 200,000 and more than 22 million residents are under "prevention-level" regions. It means they will be allowed to leave their communities from June 1 under regular preventive measures, according to the authorities.However, the task of reducing new infections and preventing a rebound remains arduous, and we need to continue working on it, Zong said. The city will implement the regular epidemic preventive and control management, and fully restore the normal order of work and life, on the premise of preventing a large-scale rebound and ensuring risks are under control, according to Zong. Since June 1, the city will start a regular COVID-19 risk classification for regions such as medium- and high-risk regions reporting no positive cases within 14 days will be classified as low-risk regions.From Wednesday, public transportation services will be fully restarted including ferries connecting Pudong (east side of the Huangpu River) and Puxi (west side), Liu Bin, an official from the Shanghai transportation commission, said at Tuesday's press briefing.Taxis will also resume normal operation, including online car-hailing services.The Pudong and Hongqiao airports have gradually increased the number of domestic flights and increased the passenger load factor of international flights, Liu said.Railways in Shanghai have gradually increased the number of trains departing or arriving in Shanghai. Some railway stations in the city will resume ticket services from June 20, according to authorities.Private cars will be allowed to move freely in the entire city of Shanghai from Wednesday. Those who drive to leave Shanghai should provide negative nucleic acid test results within 48 hours and antigen test results within 24 hours, according to authorities.Residents returning or those going to Shanghai should provide negative nucleic acid test results within 48 hours.