Photo taken in Brussels, Belgium on May 24, 2021 shows the live stream of the 74th World Health Assembly held at the World Health Organization (WHO) headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. Photo:Xinhua The 75th World Health Assembly (WHA) is scheduled for May 22-28 in Geneva, Switzerland. Days before the WHA, some people have begun stirring up trouble. Steven Solomon, the World Health Organization's (WHO) legal officer, said on Monday that 13 member countries have submitted proposals to discuss inviting the island of Taiwan to the WHA. The US and the G7 under its leadership have also made some noise regarding this issue. This was the sixth time the Tsai Ing-wen authority tried to take advantage of the WHA. And it will definitely be the sixth time it humiliates itself by doing so. Repeated so many times, the farce is no longer surprising. The protagonists' bad performance and the scriptwriter's gloomy intention have already made the audience tired. The so-called support to invite Taiwan to the WHA is essentially a political show prompted by a small group. Any hype of Taiwan-related topics under the framework of the WHA and any intent to deceive the international community to fan the flames will end up in vain. The WHO is a UN specialized agency whose membership requires sovereignty. The island of Taiwan, as part of China, is clearly ineligible. Attaching high importance to our Taiwan compatriots' health welfare, the Chinese central government has made proper arrangements for the region's participation in global health affairs under the precondition of following the one-China principle. From 2009 to 2016, the island was invited to the WHA in the name of "Chinese Taipei" as an observer for eight consecutive years. This was a special arrangement made by cross-Straits consultations based on mutual adherence to the 1992 Consensus which embodies the one-China principle. But after the DPP authority's refusal to acknowledge the 1992 Consensus since it assumed power, it has torn up its admission ticket to the WHA. In recent years, the US has once again become interested in this issue, and on some occasions has rallied support for DPP authorities. Last week, US President Joe Biden formally signed a law that would help Taiwan regain the observer status in the WHO. Washington palmed the DPP off on the WHA in an attempt to undermine the one China principle on the special occasion of the WHA. But this is by no means genuinely trying to help the DPP, let alone taking Taiwan's public health issues into consideration. The US just wants to use this issue to create trouble for its biggest competitor - China. As to whether this disturbs the WHA, Washington does not care.The US' utilitarian attitude toward the WHO with no respect has been exposed after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. During the Trump administration, after the US failed in its fight against the pandemic, it shifted the blame everywhere, even on the WHO, by refusing to pay for WHO membership at first and then just quitting the WHO. After the Biden administration came to power, although the US returned to the WHO, it took the lead in opposing a reform plan aimed at enhancing the independence of the WHO. The US has been undermining the WHO, and now, it is manipulating the Taiwan question in order to make a farce at the WHA.But the US cannot represent the international community, and only represents itself. The vast majority of the WHO's 194 member states support the one China principle. The US knows that its Taiwan-related bills were destined to be doomed, so it has handed over the dirty work to the 13 countries which are allies of Taiwan. The DPP authorities know this as well, but it still spends a lot of resources to buy "friends" and show loyalty to the US to cooperate with the show - pursuing a tiny international presence at a very high cost. The DPP authorities have always manipulated politics regardless of the cost. It is the hard-earned money of the people on the island, so it does not care.The US is the top country in the world that has failed to fight the pandemic. The number of infection cases in Taiwan has been rising, and more than 60,000 new cases have been reported in a single day for many consecutive days. It is morally shameful for the two who performed poorly in fighting the pandemic to use the WHA as a political show place. Although no invitation letter was received, the DPP authorities claimed that they would send a delegation to Geneva to seek spotlight, where they as in previous years will receive no sympathy, but be detested as an uninvited rascal.