Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi meets with Solomon Islands Foreign Minister Jeremiah Manele on Thursday in the Solomon Islands. Photo: mfa.gov.cnChina and the Solomon Islands have reached eight-point consensus including jointly cementing the bilateral political foundation and building the Belt and Road Initiative following productive communication to deepen bilateral mutually beneficial cooperation, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Thursday.Wang expounded on the eight-point consensus at a joint press conference with Solomon Islands Foreign Minister Jeremiah Manele.The two sides deepened relations with the signing of more development cooperation in economy, health and other aspects, the Solomon Islands government said in a statement released on Friday. "The two countries reaffirm their commitments to work together on all issues of mutual concerns. China has become Solomon Islands major infrastructure partner. China remains Solomon Islands major trading partner," the statement said.Both sides agreed to implement the China-proposed Global Development Initiative. China will support the reconstruction of Honiara and implement the construction projects of the stadium for the 2023 Pacific Games, athletes village, and medical centers in the Solomon Islands. China will give full support to the Solomon Islands in the fight against COVID-19 until the end, Wang said. The two sides agreed to foster a secure and stable environment, promote connectivity, address climate change together, enhance people-to-people exchanges and safeguard the interests of developing countries.Wang said on Thursday that China will continue underlining "four upholdings" in ties with Pacific island countries. China will adhere to exchanges and mutual learning with the Pacific nations on the basis of equality and mutual respect.China always respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of island countries and respects their people's efforts to explore development paths that suit their own national conditions. In the exchanges and cooperation with island countries, we don't interfere in their internal affairs, don't attach any political strings or seek any geopolitical gains, Wang said.  China and the Pacific nations will uphold win-win cooperation and be open and inclusive. The South Pacific region should serve as a stage for cooperation, not an arena for destructive competition. "China's cooperation with the Pacific island countries does not target any country and it should not be disrupted by any country," Wang said.China respects the connections the Pacific island countries have already established with other countries. China is open to carrying out the third party market cooperation with other countries both in and outside the region.