Shanghai residents line up to shop at a supermarket amid the resumption of businesses. Photo: VCG As Shanghai is scheduled to restart businesses and services in phases from Monday, manufacturing companies, postal and currier services, wholesale markets, and even tourist attraction sites are gradually resuming operation in some districts that have rolled out resumption plans. In Jiading district, where many vehicle manufacturers and the entire auto production chains are located, the operation resumption of these companies is closely related to the resumption of business in Shanghai as well as to the production and operation of the nationwide auto production chain. At present, a total of 126 auto-production-related companies in Jiading have resumed production, which cover the traditional leading automobile enterprises, new energy vehicles and enterprises of various accessories and supporting equipment in the auto industry chain, according to the paper.cn. Jiading customs has also spared no effort in supporting the resumption of production of these auto companies since the beginning of the flare-ups. It has provided fine customs supervision services for 32 car enterprises and their upstream and downstream enterprises, nearly 1,000 batches of automotive industry chain materials with a total value of 260 million yuan ($) involved. The resumption of operation and production is closely related to logistics, especially in the Yangtze River Delta region where scatter the companies of auto parts, metal materials, surface treatment raw materials due to years of deep integration of the industrial chain. Thus, it is vital to smooth the logistics in the entire Yangtze River Delta for Shanghai’s leading auto manufacturers and parts suppliers. Six logistics transfer stations in the Yangtze River Delta, including two in Shanghai, two in Zhejiang Province and two in Jiangsu Province, have been launched. At present, the transfer station in Anting, Jiading, have opened the two-way transportation channel of auto parts in Shanghai, Hangzhou, Ningbo, Nanjing and other cities in the Yangtze River Delta region. Shanghai Municipal Postal Administration announced on Monday the second batch of seven white-listed companies of operation resumption in the postal express industry. According to the bureau, Shanghai's epidemic prevention and control is currently at a critical stage of shifting from emergency response to regular prevention and control. Sorting centers for major brand enterprises in Shanghai have been put into operation and some regional outlets have resumed operation. In Chongming district, with the stabilization of the epidemic situation on the island, the resumption of the wholesale market in Miaozhen township has been progressing steadily. Filling the market with meat, fresh and living aquatic products, flour and vegetables, these small businesses owners activate the market, provide a variety of foods that residents flock to and get their long-term starved taste buds satisfied. In Fengxian district, eight bus routes, two parks and one tourist attraction will gradually resume operation from Monday. The Blue Sea Sand artificial beach in Fengxian will resume operation from Wednesday and tourists can make reservation in advance and visit the tourist attraction in batches at different times. According to Zong Ming, vice mayor of Shanghai Municipal People’s Government, in the next phase, Shanghai will divide the epidemic prevention and control work into three stages, that is to say the stage of consolidating the achievements of zero-COVID policy, transition to normalized prevention and control and the restoration of normal production and life order in the whole city. It is expected that the normal production and life order of the whole city will be fully restored between June 1 and mid- or late-June under the premise of strictly preventing the rebound of the epidemic and controlling the risks, Zong said during a press briefing on Monday.Global Times