An Apple store in Chengdu, Southwest China's Sichuan Province. Photo: ICThe world's largest iPhone factory, operated by Foxconn Technology Group in Zhengzhou, Central China's Henan Province, has been stepping up jobs recruitment as demand for iPhones surges.  However, recruiting activity for the iDPBG group, a major section for the production of iPhones, has been suspended due to the latest wave of COVID-19 resurgence in Zhengzhou, and production is expected to resume on May 10, domestic news outlet Jimu News reported on Wednesday. A spokesperson of Foxconn told the Global Times on Wednesday that the company's operation in Zhengzhou industrial park "runs normally."   Zhengzhou began implementing strengthened epidemic prevention and strict traffic controls starting from Tuesday, the city's government said. Zhengzhou city reported nine new confirmed cases and 24 asymptomatic infections on Tuesday, according to the Health Commission of Henan Province. The iDPBG group has set up recruitment stations on highway gates in Henan Province for the first time, aiming to hire more employees to ensure steady production, according to the iDPBG's official recruitment WeChat account on Monday.  Applicants have to register their information and show their green health codes after arriving at the gates, and they will be transported to recruitment centers and dorms under the closed-loop management, said the WeChat statement. The post also revealed the rebate for the internal referral, with the reward going up to 8,500 yuan ($1,286) for applicants who work more than 90 days with 55 days of valid attendance, while those who referred them will receive a bonus of 500 yuan. The Global Times found that the reward for applicants has increased from 6,500 yuan on April 27 to 8,500 yuan. Orders for the Zhengzhou plant have been continuously increasing since March. All of the production lines are running at full capacity with 200,000 employees working in an orderly manner, financial outlet China Securities Journal reported on Tuesday. Apple aims to increase production of the iPhone 13 Pro models by 10 million units during the second quarter due to high demand, according to South Korean media outlet The Elec. Apple posted record revenue of $97.3 billion for its fiscal 2022 second quarter ending on March 26, a year-on-year growth rate of 9 percent, while its services revenue reached a new all-time high, the company said on April 28. Global Times