Umbrella serving as the "1-meter line" at a nucleic acid testing site. Photo: Sina WeiboWith the recent outbreak of Omicron variant sweeping through many cities in China, citizens are regularly participating in large scale nucleic acid testing in order to efficiently prevent the outbreak. At the nucleic acid testing sites, creative ground stickers to keep crowds at a distance have been noticed and welcomed by residents.According to COVID-19 control policies, residents are required to keep at least one meter between each other in line for nucleic acid testing. To help residents comply with this rule, many community workers have placed line stickers with a one-meter spacing on the floor of the queue for nucleic acid testing. This functional sticker is now becoming more and more interesting in many cities.Videos circulating on the Internet show umbrellas, ancient poems, brain teasers, and rainbows all becoming a different kind of scenery at nucleic acid testing sites. At a nucleic acid testing site in Beijing, a student and his mother printed dozens of ground stickers with ancient Chinese poems to cover the original one-meter line. This was well received among many residents.At a nucleic acid testing site in Zhengzhou, Central China’s Henan Province, stickers with brain teasers became the new markers. While standing in line, residents would see a question on the floor, and after advancing a meter with the line, the answer to that question would appear on the next sticker.                                         At another nucleic acid testing site, staff used a handful of umbrellas to mark a one-meter interval at the top of one side of the fence, and residents kept their distance by the shadow the umbrellas cast on the ground. These umbrellas also served as shade.On China’s Twitter-like platform Sina Weibo, many netizens expressed their love for these special decorations. "Now, in the process of lining up for test, we can bothbe entertained,  and enjoy poetry," said one netizen.Global Times