vaccine Photo:VCG Chinese vaccine producer China National Biotec Group (CNBG) said the first batch of a tetravalent split-virion influenza vaccine produced by its research center in Shanghai has been approved, adding that it can help Chinese people to prepare early this year to face the dual infection risk from flu and Omicron.The vaccine is developed based on the recommendations for the viral composition of influenza vaccines for the 2022-2023 influenza season announced by the World Health Organization, covering two type-A influenza viruses and two type-B viruses, CNBG said Monday.The approval of the product can play an active role to help China prevent and control flu and satisfy the demand for flu vaccines, CNBG said.Influenza is an acute respiratory infectious disease. It can mutate easily, spreads rapidly, and can cause seasonal epidemics that lead to about 1 billion cases worldwide in a year, with 3-5 million severe cases, 290,000-650,000 respiratory disease-related deaths, and a case fatality rate of 0.1-0.2 percent, CNBG said.Influenza vaccination is the most economical and effective intervention for influenza prevention and control. Infants, school students, pregnant women, and elderly people over 60 years old and other high-risk groups should get the vaccination, CNBG noted.A number of studies have also reported that influenza vaccination is associated with lower risk of serious cases of COVID-19. A recent study published on the medRxiv preprint server on May 10 showed similar results and led to early attention to influenza before this autumn and winter’s influenza season among Chinese people. Researchers tracked 518 workers who tested positive for COVID-19 and matched them to more than 2,000 study participants who had tested negative. Those who had received an influenza vaccine that season were 30 percent less likely to test positive, and 89 percent less likely to develop severe symptoms, according to the study. These findings may be explained by influenza vaccination triggering a nonspecific immune activation, it said.The study is encouraging but it should be treated with caution, Zhuang Shilihe, a Guangzhou-based expert who closely follows vaccine-related issues, told the Global Times. The research had some limitations, Zhuang noted. For example, the follow-up period was short, the volunteers in the study were all medical workers who are young and have few underlying diseases, and the severe disease sample was too small, so more studies and data are needed to clarify the relationship between influenza vaccines and the prevention and control of COVID-19, Zhuang said. The most important method is still COVID-19 vaccines and boosters, Zhuang noted.  But overall, the study still brings more hope amid the dual risk of COVID-19 and influenza, experts noted.