The firefighter variant of China’s domestically developed large amphibious aircraft AG600, in its complete form with a new configuration, made its first flight in Zhuhai, South China’s Guangdong Province on May 31, 2022. Photo: Courtesy of Aviation Industry Corporation of ChinaThe firefighter variant of China’s domestically developed large amphibious aircraft AG600, in its complete form with a new configuration, made its first flight in Zhuhai, South China’s Guangdong Province, on Tuesday, the Global Times learned from the state-owned Aviation Industry Corporation of China, the manufacturer of the aircraft. Code-named ‘’Kunlong,” the AG600 took off from Zhuhai Jinwan Airport at 10:55 am and completed a series of missions of the test flight. It flew for 20 minutes before it landed safe and sound with its entire operation system and all other systems operating stably. The AG600 is a major aviation equipment developed to meet the urgent needs of China's emergency rescue system and the construction of the national natural disaster prevention and control system. It is China's first large special-mission aircraft developed according to civil airworthiness standards. The AG600, together with the Y-20 large transport aircraft and C919 large passenger airplane, are three of China's key projects in large aircraft development. Success of the first flight of AG600 firefighter aircraft in complete form with a new configuration marks a new stage of accelerated development for the AG600 project as well as a major breakthrough for the research and development of the firefighter aircraft. It is a major achievement for the construction of the national independent aviation emergency rescue equipment system. During the engineering verification stage, the original demonstrator aircraft of AG600 made its first land-based, water-based and sea-based flights, achieved test flights of its key functions and performances and realized the function of extinguishing fire with water. It also made breakthroughs in adopting key technologies including the combination of aero- and hydrodynamic designs, the hull that resists high waves and is suitable for sea voyage and complicated high-strut landing gear, which laid a solid and reliable technical foundation for the development of the project. The new firefighter variant of the AG600 that made first flight this time has a maximum take-off weight of 60 tons and a maximum water holding capacity of 12 tons. It fills the blank of domestic large firefighter aircraft. With a pressurized cabin, fly-by-wire control, integrated avionics and comprehensive task system, the aircraft is safer, can transport more water, has longer range, and has better potential for serialized development than the original demonstrator aircraft. The model has achieved 100 percent domestic independent production including engines and key airborne systems based on the domestic industrial, supply and innovation chains. A large number of new technologies, materials and processes were applied during production, which is also effectively driving the rapid development and quality improvement of relevant industries. The AG600 is set to carry out firefighting tasks and be put into actual use in 2023. The firefighter variant and the rescue variant of the AG600 shall obtain the Civil Aviation Administration of China airworthiness certificate and be delivered to their users in 2024 and 2025 respectively.Global Times